                   Sector 11--Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting                             T


                                              The Sector as a Whole

  The Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting sector comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing
crops, raising animals, harvesting timber, and harvesting fish and other animals from a farm, ranch, or their natural
habitats.
  The establishments in this sector are often described as farms, ranches, dairies, greenhouses, nurseries, orchards,
or hatcheries. A farm may consist of a single tract of land or a number of separate tracts which may be held under
different tenures. For example, one tract may be owned by the farm operator and another rented. It may be operated
by the operator alone or with the assistance of members of the household or hired employees, or it may be operated
by a partnership, corporation, or other type of organization. When a landowner has one or more tenants, renters,
croppers, or managers, the land operated by each is considered a farm.
  The sector distinguishes two basic activities: agricultural production and agricultural support activities.
Agricultural production includes establishments performing the complete farm or ranch operation, such as farm
owner-operators, tenant farm operators, and sharecroppers. Agricultural support activities include establishments
that perform one or more activities associated with farm operation, such as soil preparation, planting, harvesting, and
management, on a contract or fee basis.
  Excluded from the Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting sector are establishments primarily engaged in
agricultural research and establishments primarily engaged in administering programs for regulating and conserving
land, mineral, wildlife, and forest use. These establishments are classified in Industry 54171, Research and
Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences; and Industry 92412, Administration of Conservation
Programs, respectively.

111      Crop Production     T



  Industries in the Crop Production subsector grow crops mainly for food and fiber. The subsector comprises
establishments, such as farms, orchards, groves, greenhouses, and nurseries, primarily engaged in growing crops,
plants, vines, or trees and their seeds.
  The industries in this subsector are grouped by similarity of production activity, including biological and
physiological characteristics and economic requirements, the length of growing season, degree of crop rotation,
extent of input specialization, labor requirements, and capital demands. The production process is typically
completed when the raw product or commodity grown reaches the "farm gate" for market, that is, at the point of first
sale or price determination.
  Establishments are classified to the Crop Production subsector when crop production (i.e., value of crops for
market) accounts for one-half or more of the establishment's total agricultural production. Within the subsector,
establishments are classified to a specific industry when a product or industry family of products (i.e., oilseed and
grain farming, vegetable and melon farming, fruit and tree nut farming) account for one-half or more of the
establishment's agricultural production. Establishments with one-half or more crop production with no one product
or family of products of an industry accounting for one-half of the establishment's agricultural production are treated
as general combination crop farming and are classified in Industry 11199, All Other Crop Farming.
  Industries in the Crop Production subsector include establishments that own, operate, and manage and those that
operate and manage. Those that manage only are classified in Subsector 115, Support Activities for Agriculture and
Forestry. Establishments that raise aquatic plants in controlled or selected aquatic environments are classified in
Subsector 112, Animal Production and Aquaculture.

1111     Oilseed and Grain Farming      T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) growing oilseed and/or grain crops and/or
(2) producing oilseed and grain seeds. These crops have an annual life cycle and are typically grown in open fields.

11111    Soybean Farming     T

         See industry description for 111110 below.

111110 Soybean Farming

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing soybeans and/or producing soybean seeds.

Cross-References.

 Establishments engaged in growing soybeans in combination with grain(s) with the soybeans or grain(s) not
accounting for one-half of the establishment's agricultural production (value of crops for market) are classified in
U.S. Industry 111191, Oilseed and Grain Combination Farming.

11112    Oilseed (except Soybean) Farming     T

         See industry description for 111120 below.

111120 Oilseed (except Soybean) Farming

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing fibrous oilseed producing plants and/or
producing oilseed seeds, such as sunflower, safflower, flax, rape, canola, and sesame.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Growing soybeans--are classified in Industry 111110, Soybean Farming; and
        Growing oilseed(s) in combination with grain(s) with no one oilseed (or family of oilseeds) or grain(s) (or
         family of grains) accounting for one-half of the establishment's agricultural production (value of crops for
         market)--are classified in U.S. Industry 111191, Oilseed and Grain Combination Farming.

11113    Dry Pea and Bean Farming       T

         See industry description for 111130 below.

111130 Dry Pea and Bean Farming

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing dry peas, beans, and/or lentils.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in growing fresh green beans and peas are classified in U.S. Industry 111219,
Other Vegetable (except Potato) and Melon Farming.

11114    Wheat Farming    T

         See industry description for 111140 below.

111140 Wheat Farming
 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing wheat and/or producing wheat seeds.

Cross-References.

 Establishments growing wheat in combination with oilseed(s) with the wheat or oilseed(s) not accounting for one-
half of the establishment's agricultural production (value of crops for market) are classified in U.S. Industry 111191,
Oilseed and Grain Combination Farming.

11115    Corn Farming   T

         See industry description for 111150 below.

111150 Corn Farming

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing corn (except sweet corn) and/or producing
corn seeds.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing sweet corn--are classified in U.S. Industry 111219, Other Vegetable (except Potato) and Melon
          Farming; and
         Growing corn in combination with oilseed(s) with the corn or oilseed(s) not accounting for one-half of the
          establishment's production (value of crops for market)--are classified in U.S. Industry 111191, Oilseed and
          Grain Combination Farming.

11116     Rice Farming   T

          See industry description for 111160 below.

111160 Rice Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing rice (except wild rice) and/or producing rice
seeds.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing wild rice--are classified in U.S. Industry 111199, All Other Grain Farming; and
         Growing rice in combination with oilseed(s) with the rice or oilseed(s) not accounting for one-half of the
          establishment's agricultural production (value of crops for market)--are classified in U.S. Industry 111191,
          Oilseed and Grain Combination Farming.

11119     Other Grain Farming    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) growing grain(s) and/or producing grain seeds
(except wheat, corn, and rice) or (2) growing a combination of grain(s) and oilseed(s) with no one grain (or family
of grains) or oilseed (or family of oilseeds) accounting for one-half of the establishment's agriculture production
(value of crops for market). Combination grain(s) and oilseed(s) establishments may produce oilseed(s) and grain(s)
seeds and/or grow oilseed(s) and grain(s).

Illustrative Examples:

Barley farming
Rye farming
Milo farming
Sorghum farming
Oat farming
Wild rice farming
Oilseed and grain combination farming

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing wheat--are classified in Industry 11114, Wheat Farming;
         Growing corn --are classified in Industry 11115, Corn Farming;
         Growing sweet corn--are classified in Industry 11121, Vegetable and Melon Farming; and
         Growing rice (except wild rice)--are classified in Industry 11116, Rice Farming.

111191 Oilseed and Grain Combination Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments engaged in growing a combination of oilseed(s) and grain(s) with no
one oilseed (or family of oilseeds) or grain (or family of grains) accounting for one-half of the establishment's
agricultural production (value of crops for market). These establishments may produce oilseed(s) and grain(s) seeds
and/or grow oilseed(s) and grain(s).

Cross-References.

  Establishments engaged in growing one grain (or family of grains) or oilseed (or family of oilseeds) accounting for
one-half of the establishment's agriculture production (value of crops for market) are classified in Industry Group
1111, Oilseed and Grain Farming accordingly by the prominent grain(s) or oilseed(s) grown.


111199 All Other Grain Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing grains and/or producing grain(s) seeds
(except wheat, corn, rice, and oilseed(s) and grain(s) combinations).

Illustrative Examples:

Barley farming
Sorghum farming
Oat farming
Wild rice farming
Rye farming

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing wheat--are classified in Industry 111140, Wheat Farming;
         Growing corn--are classified in Industry 111150, Corn Farming;
         Growing rice (except wild rice)--are classified in Industry 111160, Rice Farming;
         Growing sweet corn--are classified in U.S. Industry 111219, Other Vegetable (except Potato) and Melon
          Farming; and
         Growing a combination of grain(s) and oilseed(s) with no one grain (or family of grains) or oilseed (or
          family of oilseeds) accounting for one-half of the establishment's agricultural production (value of crops for
          market)--are classified in U.S. Industry 111191, Oilseed and Grain Combination Farming.

1112      Vegetable and Melon Farming      T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing root and tuber crops (except sugar
beets and peanuts) or edible plants and/or producing root and tuber or edible plant seeds. The crops included in this
group have an annual growth cycle and are grown in open fields. Climate and cultural practices limit producing
areas but often permit the growing of a combination of crops in a year.

11121     Vegetable and Melon Farming      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) growing vegetable
and/or melon crops; (2) producing vegetable and/or melon seeds; and (3) growing vegetable and/or melon bedding
plants.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing sugar beets--are classified in Industry 11199, All Other Crop Farming;
         Growing vegetables and melons under glass or protective cover--are classified in Industry 11141, Food
          Crops Grown Under Cover;
         Growing dry peas and beans--are classified in Industry 11113, Dry Pea and Bean Farming;
         Growing corn (except sweet corn)--are classified in Industry 11115, Corn Farming;
         Canning, pickling, and/or drying (artificially) vegetables--are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and
          Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying; and
         Growing fruit on trees and other fruit-bearing plants (except melons)--are classified in Industry Group
          1113, Fruit and Tree Nut Farming.

111211 Potato Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing potatoes and/or producing seed
potatoes.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in canning or drying potatoes are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and
Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying.

111219 Other Vegetable (except Potato) and Melon Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) growing
melons and/or vegetables (except potatoes; dry peas; dry beans; field, silage, or seed corn; and sugar beets); (2)
producing vegetable and/or melon seeds; and (3) growing vegetable and/or melon bedding plants.

Illustrative Examples:

Carrot farming
Squash farming
Green bean farming
Tomato farming
Melon farming (e.g., cantaloupe, casaba, honeydew, watermelon)
Vegetable (except potato) farming
Pepper farming (e.g., bell, chili, green, red, sweet peppers)
Watermelon farming

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing potatoes, including sweet potatoes and yams--are classified in U.S. Industry 111211, Potato
          Farming;
         Growing sugar beets--are classified in U.S. Industry 111991, Sugar Beet Farming;
         Growing vegetables and melons under glass or protective cover--are classified in U.S. Industry 111419,
          Other Food Crops Grown Under Cover;
         Growing dry peas and beans--are classified in Industry 111130, Dry Pea and Bean Farming;
         Growing corn (except sweet corn)--are classified in Industry 111150, Corn Farming;
         Canning, pickling, and/or drying (artificially) vegetables--are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and
          Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying; and
         Growing fruit on trees and other fruit-bearing plants (except melons)--are classified in Industry Group
          1113, Fruit and Tree Nut Farming.

1113      Fruit and Tree Nut Farming      T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing fruit and/or tree nut crops. The crops
included in this industry group are generally not grown from seeds and have a perennial life cycle.

11131     Orange Groves   T

          See industry description for 111310 below.

111310 Orange Groves

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing oranges.

11132     Citrus (except Orange) Groves     T

          See industry description for 111320 below.

111320 Citrus (except Orange) Groves

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing citrus fruits (except oranges).

Illustrative Examples:

Citrus groves (except oranges)
Mandarin groves
Grapefruit groves
Tangelo groves
Lemon groves
Tangerine groves

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in growing oranges are classified in Industry 111310, Orange Groves.

11133     Noncitrus Fruit and Tree Nut Farming        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) growing noncitrus
fruits (e.g., apples, grapes, berries, peaches); (2) growing tree nuts (e.g., pecans, almonds, pistachios); or (3) growing
a combination of fruit(s) and tree nut(s) with no one fruit (or family of fruit) or family of tree nuts accounting for
one-half of the establishment's agriculture production (value of crops for market).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Harvesting berries or nuts from native and noncultivated plants--are classified in Industry 11321, Forest
          Nurseries and Gathering of Forest Products; and
         Canning and/or drying (artificially) fruit--are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and Vegetable Canning,
          Pickling, and Drying.

111331 Apple Orchards

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing apples.

Cross-References.

  Establishments engaged in growing apples in combination with tree nut(s) with the apples or family of tree nuts
not accounting for one-half of the establishment's agriculture production (i.e., value of crops for market) are
classified in U.S. Industry 111336, Fruit and Tree Nut Combination Farming.

111332 Grape Vineyards

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing grapes and/or growing grapes to sun
dry into raisins.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Drying grapes artificially--are classified in U.S. Industry 311423, Dried and Dehydrated Food
          Manufacturing; and
         Growing grapes in combination with tree nut(s) with the grapes or family of tree nuts not accounting for
          one-half of the establishment's agriculture production (i.e., value of crops for market)--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 111336, Fruit and Tree Nut Combination Farming.

111333 Strawberry Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing strawberries.

Cross-References.

  Establishments engaged in growing strawberries in combination with tree nut(s) with the strawberries or family of
tree nuts not accounting for one-half of the establishment's agriculture production (i.e., value of crops for market)
are classified in U.S. Industry 111336, Fruit and Tree Nut Combination Farming.

111334 Berry (except Strawberry) Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing berries.

Illustrative Examples:

Berry (except strawberries) farming
Cranberry farming
Blackberry farming
Currant farming
Blueberry farming
Raspberry farming

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing strawberries--are classified in U.S. Industry 111333, Strawberry Farming;
         Harvesting berries from native and noncultivated bushes or vines--are classified in Industry 113210, Forest
          Nurseries and Gathering of Forest Products; and
         Growing berries in combination with tree nut(s) with the berries or family of tree nuts not accounting for
          one-half of the establishment's agriculture production (i.e., value of crops for market)--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 111336, Fruit and Tree Nut Combination Farming.

111335 Tree Nut Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing tree nuts.

Illustrative Examples:

Almond farming
Pistachio farming
Filbert farming
Tree nut farming
Macadamia farming
Walnut farming
Pecan farming

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing coconut and coffee--are classified in U.S. Industry 111339, Other Noncitrus Fruit Farming; and
         Growing tree nut(s) in combination with fruit(s) with no one fruit (or family of fruit or of tree nuts)
          accounting for one-half of the establishment's agriculture production (i.e., value of crops for market)--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 111336, Fruit and Tree Nut Combination Farming.

111336 Fruit and Tree Nut Combination Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing a combination of fruit(s) and tree nut(s)
with no one fruit (or family of fruit) or family of tree nuts accounting for one-half of the establishment's agriculture
production (i.e., value of crops for market).

Cross-References.

  Establishments engaged in growing fruit(s) or the family of tree nut(s) accounting for one-half of the
establishment's agriculture production (i.e., value of crops for market) are classified in Industry Group 1113, Fruit
and Tree Nut Farming accordingly by the prominent fruit(s) or tree nut(s) grown.

111339 Other Noncitrus Fruit Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing noncitrus fruits (except apples, grapes,
berries, and fruit(s) and tree nut(s) combinations).

Illustrative Examples:

Apricot farming
Fig farming
Banana farming
Noncitrus fruit farming
Cherry farming
Peach farming
Coffee farming
Pineapple farming
Date farming
Prune farming

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing apples--are classified in U.S. Industry 111331, Apple Orchards;
         Growing grapes including sun drying of grapes into raisins--are classified in U.S. Industry 111332, Grape
          Vineyards;
         Growing strawberries--are classified in U.S. Industry 111333, Strawberry Farming;
         Growing berries (except strawberries)--are classified in U.S. Industry 111334, Berry (except Strawberry)
          Farming;
         Drying fruit artificially--are classified in U.S. Industry 311423, Dried and Dehydrated Food Manufacturing;
          and
         Growing noncitrus fruit(s) in combination with tree nut(s) with no one fruit (or family of fruits) or family
          of tree nuts accounting for one-half of the establishment's agriculture production (i.e., value of crops for
          market)--are classified in U.S. Industry 111336, Fruit and Tree Nut Combination Farming.

1114      Greenhouse, Nursery, and Floriculture Production         T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing crops of any kind under cover and/or
growing nursery stock and flowers. "Under cover" is generally defined as greenhouses, cold frames, cloth houses,
and lath houses. The crops grown are removed at various stages of maturity and have annual and perennial life
cycles. The nursery stock includes short rotation woody crops that have growth cycles of 10 years or less.

11141     Food Crops Grown Under Cover          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing food crops (e.g., fruits, melons, tomatoes)
under glass or protective cover.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in growing vegetable and melon bedding plants are classified in Industry 11121,
Vegetable and Melon Farming.

111411 Mushroom Production

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing mushrooms under cover in mines
underground, or in other controlled environments.

111419 Other Food Crops Grown Under Cover

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing food crops (except mushrooms) under
glass or protective cover.

Illustrative Examples:

Alfalfa sprout farming, grown under cover
Melon farming, grown under cover
Fruit farming, grown under cover
Vegetable farming, grown under cover
Hydroponic crop farming

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in growing mushrooms under cover are classified in U.S. Industry 111411,
Mushroom Production.

11142     Nursery and Floriculture Production      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) growing nursery and floriculture products (e.g.,
nursery stock, shrubbery, cut flowers, flower seeds, foliage plants) under cover or in open fields and/or (2) growing
short rotation woody trees with a growing and harvesting cycle of 10 years or less for pulp or tree stock (e.g., cut
Christmas trees, cottonwoods).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing vegetable and melon bedding plants--are classified in Industry 11121, Vegetable and Melon
          Farming;
         Operating timber tracts (i.e., growing cycle greater than 10 years)--are classified in Industry 11311, Timber
          Tract Operations; and
         Retailing nursery, tree stock, and floriculture products primarily purchased from others--are classified in
          Industry 44422, Nursery, Garden Center, and Farm Supply Stores.

111421 Nursery and Tree Production

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) growing nursery products, nursery stock,
shrubbery, bulbs, fruit stock, sod, and so forth, under cover or in open fields and/or (2) growing short rotation
woody trees with a growth and harvest cycle of 10 years or less for pulp or tree stock.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing vegetable and melon bedding plants--are classified in Industry 11121, Vegetable and Melon
          Farming;
         Operating timber tracts (i.e., growing cycle greater than 10 years)--are classified in Industry 113110,
          Timber Tract Operations; and
         Retailing nursery, tree stock, and floriculture products primarily purchased from others--are classified in
          Industry 444220, Nursery, Garden Center, and Farm Supply Stores.

111422 Floriculture Production

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing and/or producing floriculture products
(e.g., cut flowers and roses, cut cultivated greens, potted flowering and foliage plants, and flower seeds) under cover
and in open fields.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in retailing floriculture products primarily purchased from others are classified
in Industry 444220, Nursery, Garden Center, and Farm Supply Stores.

1119      Other Crop Farming     T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) growing crops (except oilseed and/or grain;
vegetable and/or melon; fruit and tree nut; and greenhouse, nursery, and/or floriculture products). These
establishments grow crops, such as tobacco, cotton, sugarcane, hay, sugar beets, peanuts, agave, herbs and spices,
and hay and grass seeds; or (2) growing a combination of crops (except a combination of oilseed(s) and grain(s) and
a combination of fruit(s) and tree nut(s)).

11191     Tobacco Farming    T

          See industry description for 111910 below.

111910 Tobacco Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing tobacco.

11192     Cotton Farming   T

          See industry description for 111920 below.

111920 Cotton Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing cotton.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in ginning cotton are classified in U.S. Industry 115111, Cotton Ginning.

11193     Sugarcane Farming    T

          See industry description for 111930 below.

111930 Sugarcane Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing sugarcane.

11194     Hay Farming   T

          See industry description for 111940 below.

111940 Hay Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing hay, alfalfa, clover, and/or mixed hay.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing grain hay--are classified in Industry Group 1111, Oilseed and Grain Farming; and
         Growing grass and hay seeds--are classified in U.S. Industry 111998, All Other Miscellaneous Crop
          Farming.

11199     All Other Crop Farming     T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) growing crops (except oilseeds and/or grains;
vegetables and/or melons; fruits and/or tree nuts; greenhouse, nursery and/or floriculture products; tobacco; cotton;
sugarcane; or hay) or (2) growing a combination of crops (except a combination of oilseed(s) and grain(s); and a
combination of fruit(s) and tree nut(s)) with no one crop or family of crops accounting for one-half of the
establishment's agricultural production (i.e., value of crops for market).

Illustrative Examples:

Agave farming
Spice farming
General combination crop farming (except oilseed and grain; vegetables and melons; fruit and nut combinations)
Sugar beet farming
Grass seed farming
Tea farming
Hay seed farming
Maple sap gathering
Peanut farming

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing oilseeds and/or wheat, corn, rice, or other grains--are classified in Industry Group 1111, Oilseed
          and Grain Farming;
         Growing vegetables and/or melons--are classified in Industry Group 1112, Vegetable and Melon Farming;
         Growing fruits and/or tree nuts--are classified in Industry Group 1113, Fruit and Tree Nut Farming;
         Growing greenhouse, nursery, and/or floriculture products--are classified in Industry Group 1114,
          Greenhouse, Nursery, and Floriculture Production;
         Growing tobacco--are classified in Industry 11191, Tobacco Farming;
         Growing cotton--are classified in Industry 11192, Cotton Farming;
         Growing sugarcane--are classified in Industry 11193, Sugarcane Farming;
         Growing hay--are classified in Industry 11194, Hay Farming; and
         Growing algae, seaweed, or other aquatic plants--are classified in Industry 11251, Aquaculture.

111991 Sugar Beet Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing sugar beets.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in growing beets (except sugar beets) are classified in U.S. Industry 111219,
Other Vegetable (except Potato) and Melon Farming.

111992 Peanut Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing peanuts.

111998 All Other Miscellaneous Crop Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) growing crops (except
oilseeds and/or grains; vegetables and/or melons; fruits and/or tree nuts; greenhouse, nursery and/or floriculture
products; tobacco; cotton; sugarcane; hay; sugar beets; or peanuts); (2) growing a combination of crops (except a
combination of oilseed(s) and grain(s); and a combination of fruit(s) and tree nut(s)) with no one crop or family of
crop(s) accounting for one-half of the establishment's agricultural production (i.e., value of crops for market); or (3)
gathering tea or maple sap.

Illustrative Examples:

Agave farming
Mint farming
General combination crop farming (except oilseed and grain; vegetables and melons; fruit and tree nut
combinations)
Spice farming
Hay seed farming
Grass seed farming
Hop farming

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Growing oilseeds and/or wheat, corn, rice, or other grains--are classified in Industry Group 1111, Oilseed
          and Grain Farming;
         Growing vegetables and/or melons--are classified in Industry Group 1112, Vegetable and Melon Farming;
         Growing fruits and/or tree nuts--are classified in Industry Group 1113, Fruit and Tree Nut Farming;
         Growing greenhouse, nursery and/or floriculture products--are classified in Industry Group 1114,
          Greenhouse, Nursery, and Floriculture Production;
         Growing tobacco--are classified in Industry 111910, Tobacco Farming;
         Growing cotton--are classified in Industry 111920, Cotton Farming;
         Growing sugarcane--are classified in Industry 111930, Sugarcane Farming;
         Growing hay--are classified in Industry 111940, Hay Farming;
         Growing sugar beets--are classified in U.S. Industry 111991, Sugar Beet Farming;
         Growing peanuts--are classified in U.S. Industry 111992, Peanut Farming; and
         Growing algae, seaweed, or other aquatic plants--are classified in U.S. Industry 112519, Other
          Aquaculture.

112       Animal Production and Aquaculture        T



 Industries in the Animal Production and Aquaculture subsector raise or fatten animals for the sale of animals or
animal products and/or raise aquatic plants and animals in controlled or selected aquatic environments for the sale of
aquatic plants, animals, or their products. The subsector includes establishments, such as ranches, farms, and
feedlots primarily engaged in keeping, grazing, breeding, or feeding animals. These animals are kept for the
products they produce or for eventual sale. The animals are generally raised in various environments, from total
confinement or captivity to feeding on an open range pasture.
 The industries in this subsector are grouped by important factors, such as suitable grazing or pasture land,
specialized buildings, type of equipment, and the amount and types of labor required. Establishments are classified
to the Animal Production and Aquaculture subsector when animal production (i.e., value of animals for market)
accounts for one-half or more of the establishment's total agricultural production. Establishments with one-half or
more animal production with no one animal product or family of animal products of an industry accounting for one-
half of the establishment's agricultural production are treated as combination animal farming classified to Industry
11299, All Other Animal Production.

1121      Cattle Ranching and Farming      T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising cattle, milking dairy cattle, or feeding
cattle for fattening.

11211     Beef Cattle Ranching and Farming, including Feedlots        T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising cattle (including cattle for dairy herd
replacements), or feeding cattle for fattening.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Milking dairy cattle--are classified in Industry 11212, Dairy Cattle and Milk Production; and

        Operating stockyards for transportation and not buying, selling, or auctioning livestock--are classified in
         Industry 48899, Other Support Activities for Transportation.

112111 Beef Cattle Ranching and Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising cattle (including cattle for dairy herd
replacements).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in milking dairy cattle are classified in Industry 112120, Dairy Cattle and Milk
Production.

112112 Cattle Feedlots

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in feeding cattle for fattening.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in operating stockyards for transportation and not buying, selling, or auctioning
livestock are classified in U.S. Industry 488999, All Other Support Activities for Transportation.

11212    Dairy Cattle and Milk Production      T

         See industry description for 112120 below.

112120 Dairy Cattle and Milk Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in milking dairy cattle.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Raising dairy herd replacements--are classified in U.S. Industry 112111, Beef Cattle Ranching and
         Farming; and
        Milking goats--are classified in Industry 112420, Goat Farming.

11213    Dual-Purpose Cattle Ranching and Farming          T

         See industry description for 112130 below.

112130 Dual-Purpose Cattle Ranching and Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising cattle for both milking and meat production.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Milking dairy cattle--are classified in Industry 112120, Dairy Cattle and Milk Production;
        Raising cattle or feeding cattle for fattening--are classified in Industry 11211, Beef Cattle Ranching and
         Farming, including Feedlots; and
        Operating stockyards for transportation and not buying, selling, or auctioning livestock--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 488999, All Other Support Activities for Transportation.

1122     Hog and Pig Farming      T



11221    Hog and Pig Farming      T

         See industry description for 112210 below.

112210 Hog and Pig Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising hogs and pigs. These establishments may
include farming activities, such as breeding, farrowing, and the raising of weanling pigs, feeder pigs, or market size
hogs.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in operating stockyards for transportation and not buying, selling, or auctioning
livestock are classified in U.S. Industry 488999, All Other Support Activities for Transportation.

1123     Poultry and Egg Production     T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in breeding, hatching, and raising poultry for
meat or egg production.

11231    Chicken Egg Production     T

         See industry description for 112310 below.

112310 Chicken Egg Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising chickens for egg production. The eggs
produced may be for use as table eggs or hatching eggs.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in raising chickens for the production of meat are classified in Industry 112320,
Broilers and Other Meat Type Chicken Production.

11232    Broilers and Other Meat Type Chicken Production        T

         See industry description for 112320 below.

112320 Broilers and Other Meat Type Chicken Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising broilers, fryers, roasters, and other meat type
chickens.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in raising chickens for egg production are classified in Industry 112310,
Chicken Egg Production.

11233    Turkey Production    T

         See industry description for 112330 below.

112330 Turkey Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising turkeys for meat or egg production.

11234    Poultry Hatcheries   T

         See industry description for 112340 below.

112340 Poultry Hatcheries

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in hatching poultry of any kind.

11239    Other Poultry Production     T

          See industry description for 112390 below.

112390 Other Poultry Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising poultry (except chickens for meat or egg
production and turkeys).

Illustrative Examples:

Duck production
Ostrich production
Emu production
Pheasant production
Geese production
Quail production

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Raising aviary birds, such as parakeets, canaries, and love birds--are classified in Industry 112990, All
          Other Animal Production;
         Raising chickens for egg production--are classified in Industry 112310, Chicken Egg Production;
         Raising broilers and other meat type chickens--are classified in Industry 112320, Broilers and Other Meat
          Type Chicken Production;
         Raising turkeys--are classified in Industry 112330, Turkey Production; and
         Raising swans, peacocks, flamingos or other "adornment birds"--are classified in Industry 112990, All
          Other Animal Production.

1124      Sheep and Goat Farming     T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising sheep, lambs, and goats, or feeding
lambs for fattening.

11241     Sheep Farming    T

          See industry description for 112410 below.

112410 Sheep Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising sheep and lambs, or feeding lambs for
fattening. The sheep or lambs may be raised for sale or wool production.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in operating stockyards for transportation and not buying, selling, or auctioning
livestock are classified in U.S. Industry 488999, All Other Support Activities for Transportation.

11242     Goat Farming    T

          See industry description for 112420 below.

112420 Goat Farming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising goats.

1125      Aquaculture  T



11251     Aquaculture  T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the farm raising and production of aquatic animals or
plants in controlled or selected aquatic environments. These establishments use some form of intervention in the
rearing process to enhance production, such as holding in captivity, regular stocking, feeding, and protecting from
predators, pests, and disease.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the catching or taking of fish and other aquatic animals from their natural
habitat are classified in Industry 11411, Fishing.

112511 Finfish Farming and Fish Hatcheries

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) farm raising finfish (e.g., catfish, trout,
goldfish, tropical fish, minnows) and/or (2) hatching fish of any kind.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the catching or taking of finfish from their natural habitat are classified in
U.S. Industry 114111, Finfish Fishing.

112512 Shellfish Farming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in farm raising shellfish (e.g., crayfish, shrimp,
oysters, clams, mollusks).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the catching or taking of shellfish from their natural habitat are classified in
U.S. Industry 114112, Shellfish Fishing.

112519 Other Aquaculture

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) farm raising of aquatic animals (except
finfish and shellfish) and/or (2) farm raising of aquatic plants. Alligator, algae, frog, seaweed, or turtle production is
included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Miscellaneous fishing activities, such as catching or taking of terrapins, turtles, and frogs in their natural
         habitat--are classified in U.S. Industry 114119, Other Marine Fishing;
        Farm raising finfish--are classified in U.S. Industry 112511, Finfish Farming and Fish Hatcheries;
        Farm raising shellfish--are classified in U.S. Industry 112512, Shellfish Farming; and
        Growing hydroponic crops--are classified in Industry 111419, Other Food Crops Grown Under Cover.

1129     Other Animal Production      T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising animals and insects (except cattle, hogs
and pigs, poultry, sheep and goats, aquaculture) for sale or product production. These establishments are primarily
engaged in raising one of the following: bees, horses and other equines, rabbits and other fur-bearing animals, and so
forth, and producing products, such as honey and other bee products. Establishments primarily engaged in raising a
combination of animals with no one animal or family of animals accounting for one-half of the establishment's
agricultural production (i.e., value of animals for market) are included in this industry group.

11291    Apiculture   T

         See industry description for 112910 below.

112910 Apiculture

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising bees. These establishments may collect and
gather honey; and/or sell queen bees, packages of bees, royal jelly, bees' wax, propolis, venom, pollen, and/or other
bee products.

11292     Horses and Other Equine Production       T

          See industry description for 112920 below.

112920 Horses and Other Equine Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising horses, mules, donkeys, and other equines.

Cross-References.

         Establishments primarily engaged in equine boarding are classified in Industry 115210, Support Activities
          for Animal Production; and
         Equine owners entering horses in racing or other spectator sporting events are classified in U.S. Industry
          711219, Other Spectator Sports.

11293     Fur-Bearing Animal and Rabbit Production        T

          See industry description for 112930 below.

112930 Fur-Bearing Animal and Rabbit Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising fur-bearing animals including rabbits. These
animals may be raised for sale or for their pelt production.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the trapping or hunting of wild fur-bearing animals are classified in Industry
114210, Hunting and Trapping.

11299     All Other Animal Production     T

          See industry description for 112990 below.

112990 All Other Animal Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in: (1) raising animals (except cattle, hogs and pigs,
poultry, sheep and goats, aquaculture, apiculture, horses and other equines; and fur-bearing animals including
rabbits); or (2) raising a combination of animals, with no one animal or family of animals accounting for one-half of
the establishment's agricultural production (i.e., value of animals for market).

Illustrative Examples:

Bird production (e.g., canaries, parakeets, parrots)
Laboratory animal production (e.g., rats, mice, guinea pigs)
Combination animal farming (except dairy, poultry)
Llama production
Companion animals production (e.g., cats, dogs)
Worm production
Deer production

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Raising cattle, dairy cattle or feeding cattle for fattening--are classified in Industry Group 1121, Cattle
          Ranching and Farming;
         Raising hogs and pigs--are classified in Industry Group 1122, Hog and Pig Farming;
         Raising poultry and raising poultry for egg production--are classified in Industry Group 1123, Poultry and
          Egg Production;
         Raising sheep and goats--are classified in Industry Group 1124, Sheep and Goat Farming;
         Animal aquaculture--are classified in Industry 11251, Aquaculture;
         Raising bees--are classified in Industry 112910, Apiculture;
         Raising horses and other equines--are classified in Industry 112920, Horses and Other Equine Production;
          and
         Raising fur-bearing animals including rabbits--are classified in Industry 112930, Fur-Bearing Animal and
          Rabbit Production.

113       Forestry and Logging    T



  Industries in the Forestry and Logging subsector grow and harvest timber on a long production cycle (i.e., of 10
years or more). Long production cycles use different production processes than short production cycles, which
require more horticultural interventions prior to harvest, resulting in processes more similar to those found in the
Crop Production subsector. Consequently, Christmas tree production and other production involving production
cycles of less than 10 years, are classified in the Crop Production subsector.
  Industries in this subsector specialize in different stages of the production cycle. Reforestation requires production
of seedlings in specialized nurseries. Timber production requires natural forest or suitable areas of land that are
available for a long duration. The maturation time for timber depends upon the species of tree, the climatic
conditions of the region, and the intended purpose of the timber. The harvesting of timber (except when done on an
extremely small scale) requires specialized machinery unique to the industry. Establishments gathering forest
products, such as gums, barks, balsam needles, rhizomes, fibers, Spanish moss, and ginseng and truffles, are also
included in this subsector.

1131      Timber Tract Operations      T



11311     Timber Tract Operations      T

          See industry description for 113110 below.

113110 Timber Tract Operations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the operation of timber tracts for the purpose of
selling standing timber.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Acting as lessors of land with trees as real estate property--are classified in Industry 531190, Lessors of
          Other Real Estate Property;
         Growing short rotation woody trees (i.e., growing and harvesting cycle is 10 years or less)--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 111421, Nursery and Tree Production; and
         Cutting timber--are classified in Industry 113310, Logging.

1132      Forest Nurseries and Gathering of Forest Products         T



11321     Forest Nurseries and Gathering of Forest Products         T

          See industry description for 113210 below.

113210 Forest Nurseries and Gathering of Forest Products

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) growing trees for reforestation and/or (2)
gathering forest products, such as gums, barks, balsam needles, rhizomes, fibers, Spanish moss, ginseng, and
truffles.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Gathering tea and maple sap--are classified in U.S. Industry 111998, All Other Miscellaneous Crop
          Farming; and
         Processing maple syrup into other products--are classified in Industry 31199, All Other Food
          Manufacturing.

1133      Logging  T



11331     Logging  T

          See industry description for 113310 below.

113310 Logging

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) cutting timber; (2)
cutting and transporting timber; and (3) producing wood chips in the field.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in trucking timber are classified in Industry 484220, Specialized Freight (except
Used Goods) Trucking, Local.

114       Fishing, Hunting and Trapping      T



  Industries in the Fishing, Hunting and Trapping subsector harvest fish and other wild animals from their natural
habitats and are dependent upon a continued supply of the natural resource. The harvesting of fish is the
predominant economic activity of this subsector and it usually requires specialized vessels that, by the nature of their
size, configuration and equipment, are not suitable for any other type of production, such as transportation.
  Hunting and trapping activities utilize a wide variety of production processes and are classified in the same
subsector as fishing because the availability of resources and the constraints imposed, such as conservation
requirements and proper habitat maintenance, are similar.

1141      Fishing T



11411     Fishing T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the commercial catching or taking of finfish,
shellfish, or miscellaneous marine products from a natural habitat, such as the catching of bluefish, eels, salmon,
tuna, clams, crabs, lobsters, mussels, oysters, shrimp, frogs, sea urchins, and turtles.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Farm raising finfish, shellfish or other marine animals and plants--are classified in Industry 11251,
          Aquaculture; and
         Gathering and processing seafood into canned seafood products--are classified in Industry 31171, Seafood
          Product Preparation and Packaging.

114111 Finfish Fishing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the commercial catching or taking of finfish
(e.g., bluefish, salmon, trout, tuna) from their natural habitat.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Farm raising finfish--are classified in U.S. Industry 112511, Finfish Farming and Fish Hatcheries; and

         Gathering and processing (known as "floating factory ships") seafood into canned seafood products--are
          classified in Industry 311710, Seafood Product Preparation and Packaging.

114112 Shellfish Fishing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the commercial catching or taking of shellfish
(e.g., clams, crabs, lobsters, mussels, oysters, sea urchins, shrimp) from their natural habitat.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in farm raising shellfish are classified in U.S. Industry 112512, Shellfish
Farming.

114119 Other Marine Fishing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the commercial catching or taking of marine
animals (except finfish and shellfish).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Animal or plant aquaculture (except finfish and shellfish)--are classified in U.S. Industry 112519, Other
          Aquaculture;
         The commercial catching or taking of finfish from their natural habitat--are classified in U.S. Industry
          114111, Finfish Fishing; and
         The commercial catching or taking of shellfish from their natural habitat--are classified in U.S. Industry
          114112, Shellfish Fishing.

1142      Hunting and Trapping     T



11421     Hunting and Trapping     T

          See industry description for 114210 below.

114210 Hunting and Trapping

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) commercial
hunting and trapping; (2) operating commercial game preserves, such as game retreats; and (3) operating hunting
preserves.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating nature preserves--are classified in Industry 712190, Nature Parks and Other Similar Institutions;
          and
         Farm raising rabbits and other fur-bearing animals--are classified in Industry 112930, Fur-Bearing Animal
          and Rabbit Production.

115       Support Activities for Agriculture and Forestry      T



 Industries in the Support Activities for Agriculture and Forestry subsector provide support services that are an
essential part of agricultural and forestry production. These support activities may be performed by the agriculture
or forestry producing establishment or conducted independently as an alternative source of inputs required for the
production process for a given crop, animal, or forestry industry. Establishments that primarily perform these
activities independent of the agriculture or forestry producing establishment are in this subsector.

1151      Support Activities for Crop Production      T



11511     Support Activities for Crop Production      T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing support activities for growing crops.

Illustrative Examples:

Aerial dusting or spraying (i.e., using specialized or dedicated aircraft)
Farm management services
Cotton ginning
Planting crops
Cultivating services
Vineyard cultivation services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Performing crop production that are generally known as farms, orchards, groves, or vineyards (including
          sharecroppers and tenant farms)--are classified in the appropriate crop industry within Subsector 111, Crop
          Production;
         Providing support activities for forestry--are classified in Industry 11531, Support Activities for Forestry;
         Landscaping and horticultural services, such as lawn and maintenance care and ornamental shrub and tree
          services--are classified in Industry 56173, Landscaping Services;
         Land clearing, land leveling, and earth moving for terracing, ponds, and irrigation--are classified in
          Industry 23891, Site Preparation Contractors;
         Artificially drying and dehydrating fruits and vegetables--are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and
          Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying;
         Stemming and redrying tobacco--are classified in Industry 31223, Tobacco Manufacturing;
         Providing water for irrigation--are classified in Industry 22131, Water Supply and Irrigation Systems; and
         Buying farm products, such as fruits or vegetables, for resale to other wholesalers or retailers, and
          preparing them for market or further processing--are classified in Industry 42448, Fresh Fruit and
          Vegetable Merchant Wholesalers.

115111 Cotton Ginning

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in ginning cotton.

115112 Soil Preparation, Planting, and Cultivating

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing a soil preparation activity or crop
production service, such as plowing, fertilizing, seed bed preparation, planting, cultivating, and crop protecting
services.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Land clearing, land leveling, and earth moving for terracing, ponds, and irrigation--are classified in
          Industry 238910, Site Preparation Contractors; and
         Providing water for irrigation--are classified in Industry 221310, Water Supply and Irrigation Systems.

115113 Crop Harvesting, Primarily by Machine

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in mechanical harvesting, picking, and combining
of crops, and related activities. The machinery used is provided by the servicing establishment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing personnel for manual harvesting--are classified in U.S. Industry 115115, Farm Labor Contractors
          and Crew Leaders; and

        Providing farm management services (i.e., on a contract or fee basis) and arranging or contracting crop
         mechanical or manual harvesting operations for the farm(s) it manages--are classified in U.S. Industry
         115116, Farm Management Services.

115114 Postharvest Crop Activities (except Cotton Ginning)

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing services on crops, subsequent to
their harvest, with the intent of preparing them for market or further processing. These establishments provide
postharvest activities, such as crop cleaning, sun drying, shelling, fumigating, curing, sorting, grading, packing, and
cooling.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Ginning cotton--are classified in U.S. Industry 115111, Cotton Ginning;
        Custom grain grinding for animal feed--are classified in U.S. Industry 311119, Other Animal Food
         Manufacturing;
        Artificially drying and dehydrating fruits and vegetables--are classified in U.S. Industry 311423, Dried and
         Dehydrated Food Manufacturing;
        Stemming and redrying tobacco--are classified in Industry 312230, Tobacco Manufacturing;
        Buying farm products for resale to other wholesalers or retailers and preparing them for market or further
         processing--are classified in Industry 424480, Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Merchant Wholesalers; and
        Providing farm management services (i.e., on a contract or fee basis) and arranging or contracting
         postharvesting crop activities for the farm(s) it manages--are classified in U.S. Industry 115116, Farm
         Management Services.

115115 Farm Labor Contractors and Crew Leaders

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in supplying labor for agricultural production or
harvesting.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing machine harvesting--are classified in U.S. Industry 115113, Crop Harvesting, Primarily by
         Machine; and
        Providing farm management services (i.e., on a contract or fee basis) and arranging or contracting farm
         labor for the farm(s) it manages--are classified in U.S. Industry 115116, Farm Management Services.

115116 Farm Management Services

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing farm management services on a
contract or fee basis usually to citrus groves, orchards, or vineyards. These establishments always provide
management and may arrange or contract for the partial or the complete operations of the farm establishment(s) it
manages. Operational activities may include cultivating, harvesting, and/or other specialized agricultural support
activities.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in crop production that are generally known as farms, orchards, groves, or
vineyards (including share croppers and tenant farms), are classified in the appropriate crop industry within
Subsector 111, Crop Production.

1152     Support Activities for Animal Production      T



11521    Support Activities for Animal Production      T

         See industry description for 115210 below.

115210 Support Activities for Animal Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing support activities related to raising
livestock (e.g., cattle, goats, hogs, horses, poultry, sheep). These establishments may perform one or more of the
following: (1) breeding services for animals, including companion animals (e.g., cats, dogs, pet birds); (2) pedigree
record services; (3) boarding horses; (4) dairy herd improvement activities; (5) livestock spraying; and (6) sheep
dipping and shearing.

1153     Support Activities for Forestry     T



11531    Support Activities for Forestry     T

         See industry description for 115310 below.

115310 Support Activities for Forestry

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing particular support activities related to
timber production, wood technology, forestry economics and marketing, and forest protection. These establishments
may provide support activities for forestry, such as estimating timber, forest firefighting, forest pest control, and
consulting on wood attributes and reforestation.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the public administration and conservation of forest lands are classified in
Industry 924120, Administration of Conservation Programs.

               Sector 21--Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction                                   T


                                                The Sector as a Whole

  The Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction sector comprises establishments that extract naturally
occurring mineral solids, such as coal and ores; liquid minerals, such as crude petroleum; and gases, such as natural
gas. The term mining is used in the broad sense to include quarrying, well operations, beneficiating (e.g., crushing,
screening, washing, and flotation), and other preparation customarily performed at the mine site, or as a part of
mining activity.
  The Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction sector distinguishes two basic activities: mine operation and
mining support activities. Mine operation includes establishments operating mines, quarries, or oil and gas wells on
their own account or for others on a contract or fee basis. Mining support activities include establishments that
perform exploration (except geophysical surveying) and/or other mining services on a contract or fee basis (except
mine site preparation and construction of oil/gas pipelines).
  Establishments in the Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction sector are grouped and classified according
to the natural resource mined or to be mined. Industries include establishments that develop the mine site, extract
the natural resources, and/or those that beneficiate (i.e., prepare) the mineral mined. Beneficiation is the process
whereby the extracted material is reduced to particles that can be separated into mineral and waste, the former
suitable for further processing or direct use. The operations that take place in beneficiation are primarily
mechanical, such as grinding, washing, magnetic separation, and centrifugal separation. In contrast, manufacturing
operations primarily use chemical and electrochemical processes, such as electrolysis and distillation. However,
some treatments, such as heat treatments, take place in both the beneficiation and the manufacturing (i.e.,
smelting/refining) stages. The range of preparation activities varies by mineral and the purity of any given ore
deposit. While some minerals, such as petroleum and natural gas, require little or no preparation, others are washed
and screened, while yet others, such as gold and silver, can be transformed into bullion before leaving the mine site.
  Mining, beneficiating, and manufacturing activities often occur in a single location. Separate receipts will be
collected for these activities whenever possible. When receipts cannot be broken out between mining and
manufacturing, establishments that mine or quarry nonmetallic minerals, and then beneficiate the nonmetallic
minerals into more finished manufactured products are classified based on the primary activity of the establishment.
A mine that manufactures a small amount of finished products will be classified in Sector 21, Mining, Quarrying,
and Oil and Gas Extraction. An establishment that mines whose primary output is a more finished manufactured
product will be classified in Sector 31-33, Manufacturing.

211      Oil and Gas Extraction     T



  Industries in the Oil and Gas Extraction subsector operate and/or develop oil and gas field properties. Such
activities may include exploration for crude petroleum and natural gas; drilling, completing, and equipping wells;
operating separators, emulsion breakers, desilting equipment, and field gathering lines for crude petroleum and
natural gas; and all other activities in the preparation of oil and gas up to the point of shipment from the producing
property. This subsector includes the production of crude petroleum, the mining and extraction of oil from oil shale
and oil sands, and the production of natural gas, sulfur recovery from natural gas, and recovery of hydrocarbon
liquids.
  Establishments in this subsector include those that operate oil and gas wells on their own account or for others on a
contract or fee basis. Establishments primarily engaged in providing support services, on a fee or contract basis,
required for the drilling or operation of oil and gas wells (except geophysical surveying and mapping, mine site
preparation, and construction of oil/gas pipelines) are classified in Subsector 213, Support Activities for Mining.

2111     Oil and Gas Extraction     T



21111    Oil and Gas Extraction     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating and/or developing oil and gas field
properties and establishments primarily engaged in recovering liquid hydrocarbons from oil and gas field gases.
Such activities may include exploration for crude petroleum and natural gas; drilling, completing, and equipping
wells; operation of separators, emulsion breakers, desilting equipment, and field gathering lines for crude petroleum

and natural gas; and all other activities in the preparation of oil and gas up to the point of shipment from the
producing property. This industry includes the production of crude petroleum, the mining and extraction of oil from
oil shale and oil sands, the production of natural gas, sulfur recovery from natural gas, and the recovery of
hydrocarbon liquids from oil and gas field gases. Establishments in this industry operate oil and gas wells on their
own account or for others on a contract or fee basis.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Performing oil field services for operators on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry 21311,
         Support Activities for Mining;
        Manufacturing acyclic and cyclic hydrocarbons from refined petroleum or liquid hydrocarbons--are
         classified in Industry 32511, Petrochemical Manufacturing;
        Refining crude petroleum into refined petroleum and liquid hydrocarbons--are classified in Industry 32411,
         Petroleum Refineries; and
        Recovering helium from natural gas--are classified in Industry 32512, Industrial Gas Manufacturing.

211111 Crude Petroleum and Natural Gas Extraction

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) the exploration, development and/or the
production of petroleum or natural gas from wells in which the hydrocarbons will initially flow or can be produced
using normal pumping techniques or (2) the production of crude petroleum from surface shales or tar sands or from
reservoirs in which the hydrocarbons are semisolids. Establishments in this industry operate oil and gas wells on
their own account or for others on a contract or fee basis.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Performing oil field services for operators on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry 21311,
         Support Activities for Mining;
        Refining crude petroleum into refined petroleum and liquid hydrocarbons--are classified in Industry
         324110, Petroleum Refineries; and
        Recovering helium from natural gas--are classified in Industry 325120, Industrial Gas Manufacturing.

211112 Natural Gas Liquid Extraction

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the recovery of liquid hydrocarbons from oil
and gas field gases. Establishments primarily engaged in sulfur recovery from natural gas are included in this
industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Manufacturing acyclic and cyclic hydrocarbons from refined petroleum or converting refined petroleum
         into liquid hydrocarbons (petrochemicals) and/or recovering liquid hydrocarbons--are classified in Industry
         325110, Petrochemical Manufacturing;
        Refining crude petroleum into refined petroleum and liquid hydrocarbons--are classified in Industry
         324110, Petroleum Refineries; and
        Recovering helium from natural gas--are classified in Industry 325120, Industrial Gas Manufacturing.

212      Mining (except Oil and Gas)      T



 Industries in the Mining (except Oil and Gas) subsector primarily engage in mining, mine site development, and
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) metallic minerals and nonmetallic minerals, including coal. The term "mining" is used
in the broad sense to include ore extraction, quarrying, and beneficiating (e.g., crushing, screening, washing, sizing,
concentrating, and flotation), customarily done at the mine site.
 Beneficiation is the process whereby the extracted material is reduced to particles which can be separated into
mineral and waste, the former suitable for further processing or direct use. The operations that take place in
beneficiation are primarily mechanical, such as grinding, washing, magnetic separation, centrifugal separation, and

so on. In contrast, manufacturing operations primarily use chemical and electrochemical processes, such as
electrolysis, distillation, and so on. However some treatments, such as heat treatments, take place in both stages: the
beneficiation and the manufacturing (i.e., smelting/refining) stages. The range of preparation activities varies by
mineral and the purity of any given ore deposit. While some minerals, such as petroleum and natural gas, require
little or no preparation, others are washed and screened, while yet others, such as gold and silver, can be transformed
into bullion before leaving the mine site.
  Establishments in the Mining (except Oil and Gas) subsector include those that have complete responsibility for
operating mines and quarries (except oil and gas wells) and those that operate mines and quarries (except oil and gas
wells) for others on a contract or fee basis. Establishments primarily engaged in providing support services, on a
contract or fee basis, required for the mining and quarrying of minerals are classified in Subsector 213, Support
Activities for Mining.

2121      Coal Mining    T



21211     Coal Mining    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) mining bituminous
coal, anthracite, and lignite by underground mining, auger mining, strip mining, culm bank mining, and other
surface mining; (2) developing coal mine sites; and (3) beneficiating (i.e., preparing) coal (e.g., cleaning, washing,
screening, and sizing coal).

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Manufacturing coke oven products in coke oven establishments--are classified in Industry 32419, Other
          Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing; and
         Manufacturing coal products in steel mills--are classified in Industry 33111, Iron and Steel Mills and
          Ferroalloy Manufacturing.

212111 Bituminous Coal and Lignite Surface Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) surface mining
of bituminous coal and lignite; (2) developing bituminous coal and lignite surface mine sites; (3) surface mining and
beneficiating (e.g., cleaning, washing, screening, and sizing coal) of bituminous coal; or (4) beneficiating (e.g.,
cleaning, washing, screening, and sizing coal), but not mining, bituminous coal.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Manufacturing coke oven products in coke oven establishments--are classified in U.S. Industry 324199, All
          Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing;
         Underground mining of bituminous coal--are classified in U.S. Industry 212112, Bituminous Coal
          Underground Mining; and
         Mining and/or beneficiating anthracite coal--are classified in U.S. Industry 212113, Anthracite Mining.

212112 Bituminous Coal Underground Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) underground
mining of bituminous coal; (2) developing bituminous coal underground mine sites; and (3) underground mining and
beneficiating of bituminous coal (e.g., cleaning, washing, screening, and sizing coal).

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Manufacturing coke oven products in coke oven establishments--are classified in U.S. Industry 324199, All
          Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing;
         Surface mining and/or beneficiating of bituminous coal or lignite--are classified in U.S. Industry 212111,
          Bituminous Coal and Lignite Surface Mining; and
         Mining and/or beneficiating anthracite coal--are classified in U.S. Industry 212113, Anthracite Mining.

212113 Anthracite Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) mining
anthracite coal; (2) developing anthracite coal mine sites; and (3) beneficiating anthracite coal (e.g., cleaning,
washing, screening, and sizing coal).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Manufacturing coke oven products in coke oven establishments--are classified in U.S. Industry 324199, All
         Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing;
        Surface mining and/or beneficiating bituminous coal or lignite--are classified in U.S. Industry 212111,
         Bituminous Coal and Lignite Surface Mining; and
        Underground mining of bituminous coal--are classified in U.S. Industry 212112, Bituminous Coal
         Underground Mining.

2122     Metal Ore Mining     T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing mine sites or mining metallic
minerals, and establishments primarily engaged in ore dressing and beneficiating (i.e., preparing) operations, such as
crushing, grinding, washing, drying, sintering, concentrating, calcining, and leaching. Beneficiating may be
performed at mills operated in conjunction with the mines served or at mills, such as custom mills, operated
separately.

21221    Iron Ore Mining    T

         See industry description for 212210 below.

212210 Iron Ore Mining

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) developing mine sites, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) iron ores and manganiferous ores valued chiefly for their iron content and/or (2)
producing sinter iron ore (except iron ore produced in iron and steel mills) and other iron ore agglomerates.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing pig iron ore are classified in Industry 331110, Iron and Steel
Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing.

21222    Gold Ore and Silver Ore Mining       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) ores valued chiefly for their gold and/or silver content. Establishments primarily
engaged in the transformation of the gold and silver into bullion or dore bar in combination with mining activities
are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing gold or silver bullion or dore bar without mining are classified
in Industry 33141, Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining.

212221 Gold Ore Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) ores valued chiefly for their gold content. Establishments primarily engaged in
transformation of the gold into bullion or dore bar in combination with mining activities are included in this
industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing gold bullion or dore bar without mining are classified in
Industry 331410, Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining.

212222 Silver Ore Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) ores valued chiefly for their silver content. Establishments primarily engaged in
transformation of the silver into bullion or dore bar in combination with mining activities are included in this
industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing silver bullion or dore bar without mining are classified in
Industry 331410, Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining.

21223     Copper, Nickel, Lead, and Zinc Mining       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) ores valued chiefly for their copper, nickel, lead, or zinc content. Beneficiating
includes the transformation of ores into concentrates.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Refining copper concentrates--are classified in Industry 33141, Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum)
          Smelting and Refining; and
         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating iron and manganiferous ores valued for their iron
          content--are classified in Industry 21221, Iron Ore Mining.

212231 Lead Ore and Zinc Ore Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) lead ores, zinc ores, or lead-zinc ores.

212234 Copper Ore and Nickel Ore Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in: (1) developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) copper and/or nickel ores; and (2) recovering copper concentrates by the precipitation,
leaching, or electrowinning of copper ore.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in refining copper concentrates are classified in Industry 331410, Nonferrous
Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining.

21229     Other Metal Ore Mining      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) metal ores (except iron and manganiferous ores valued for their iron content, gold ore,
silver ore, copper, nickel, lead, and zinc ore).

Illustrative Examples:

Antimony ores mining and/or beneficiating

Tantalum ores mining and/or beneficiating
Columbite ores mining and/or beneficiating
Tungsten ores mining and/or beneficiating
Ilmenite ores mining and/or beneficiating
Uranium-radium-vanadium ores mining and/or beneficiating
Molybdenum ores mining and/or beneficiating

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating iron and manganiferous ores valued chiefly for their
          iron content--are classified in Industry 21221, Iron Ore Mining;
         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating ores valued chiefly for their gold or silver content--
          are classified in Industry 21222, Gold Ore and Silver Ore Mining;
         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating ores valued chiefly for their copper, nickel, lead, or
          zinc content--are classified in Industry 21223, Copper, Nickel, Lead, and Zinc Mining; and
         Enriching uranium--are classified in Industry 32518, Other Basic Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing.

212291 Uranium-Radium-Vanadium Ore Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) uranium-radium-vanadium ores.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in enriching uranium are classified in Industry 325180, Other Basic Inorganic
Chemical Manufacturing.

212299 All Other Metal Ore Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) metal ores (except iron and manganiferous ores valued for their iron content, gold ore,
silver ore, copper, nickel, lead, zinc, and uranium-radium-vanadium ore).

Illustrative Examples:

Antimony ores mining and/or beneficiating
Rare-earth metal ores mining and/or beneficiating
Columbite ores mining and/or beneficiating
Tantalum ores mining and/or beneficiating
Ilmenite ores mining and/or beneficiating
Tungsten ores mining and/or beneficiating
Molybdenum ores mining and/or beneficiating

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating iron and manganiferous ores valued for their iron
          content--are classified in Industry 212210, Iron Ore Mining;
         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating ores valued chiefly for their gold or silver content--
          are classified in Industry 21222, Gold Ore and Silver Ore Mining;
         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating ores valued chiefly for their copper, nickel, lead, or
          zinc content--are classified in Industry 21223, Copper, Nickel, Lead, and Zinc Mining; and
         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating uranium-radium-vanadium ores--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 212291, Uranium-Radium-Vanadium Ore Mining.

2123      Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying        T

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing mine sites, or in mining or
quarrying nonmetallic minerals (except fuels). Also included are certain well and brine operations, and preparation
plants primarily engaged in beneficiating (e.g., crushing, grinding, washing, and concentrating) nonmetallic
minerals.
  Beneficiation is the process whereby the extracted material is reduced to particles which can be separated into
mineral and waste, the former suitable for further processing or direct use. The operations that take place in
beneficiation are primarily mechanical, such as grinding, washing, magnetic separation, and centrifugal separation.
In contrast, manufacturing operations primarily use chemical and electrochemical processes, such as electrolysis and
distillation. However, some treatments, such as heat treatments, take place in both the beneficiation and the
manufacturing (i.e., smelting/refining) stages. The range of preparation activities varies by mineral and the purity of
any given ore deposit. While some minerals, such as petroleum and natural gas, require little or no preparation,
others are washed and screened, while yet others, such as gold and silver, can be transformed into bullion before
leaving the mine site.

21231     Stone Mining and Quarrying     T



  This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining or quarrying
dimension stone (i.e., rough blocks and/or slabs of stone), or mining and quarrying crushed and broken stone and/or
(2) preparation plants primarily engaged in beneficiating stone (e.g., crushing, grinding, washing, screening,
pulverizing, and sizing).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Producing lime--are classified in Industry 32741, Lime Manufacturing; and
         Quarrying and dressing dimension stone--are classified in Industry 32799, All Other Nonmetallic Mineral
          Product Manufacturing.

212311 Dimension Stone Mining and Quarrying

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site and/or mining or
quarrying dimension stone (i.e., rough blocks and/or slabs of stone).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in dressing dimension stone and manufacturing stone products are classified in
U.S. Industry 327991, Cut Stone and Stone Product Manufacturing.

212312 Crushed and Broken Limestone Mining and Quarrying

  This U.S. industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining or
quarrying crushed and broken limestone (including related rocks, such as dolomite, cement rock, marl, travertine,
and calcareous tufa); and (2) preparation plants primarily engaged in beneficiating limestone (e.g., grinding or
pulverizing).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Producing lime--are classified in Industry 327410, Lime Manufacturing; and
         Mining or quarrying bituminous limestone--are classified in U.S. Industry 212319, Other Crushed and
          Broken Stone Mining and Quarrying.

212313 Crushed and Broken Granite Mining and Quarrying

  This U.S. industry comprises: (1) establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, and/or mining or
quarrying crushed and broken granite (including related rocks, such as gneiss, syenite, and diorite); and (2)
preparation plants primarily engaged in beneficiating granite (e.g., grinding or pulverizing).

212319 Other Crushed and Broken Stone Mining and Quarrying

  This U.S. industry comprises: (1) establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site and/or mining or
quarrying crushed and broken stone (except limestone and granite); (2) preparation plants primarily engaged in
beneficiating (e.g., grinding and pulverizing) stone (except limestone and granite); and (3) establishments primarily
engaged in mining or quarrying bituminous limestone and bituminous sandstone.

Illustrative Examples:

Bituminous limestone mining and/or beneficiating
Marble crushed and broken stone mining and/or beneficiating
Bituminous sandstone mining and/or beneficiating
Sandstone crushed and broken stone mining and/or beneficiating

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Mining or quarrying crushed and broken limestone--are classified in U.S. Industry 212312, Crushed and
          Broken Limestone Mining and Quarrying; and
         Mining or quarrying crushed and broken granite--are classified in U.S. Industry 212313, Crushed and
          Broken Granite Mining and Quarrying.

21232     Sand, Gravel, Clay, and Ceramic and Refractory Minerals Mining and Quarrying             T



  This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site and/or mining,
quarrying, dredging for sand and gravel, or mining clay (e.g., china clay, paper clay and slip clay), and (2)
preparation plants primarily engaged in beneficiating (e.g., washing, screening, and grinding) sand and gravel, clay,
and ceramic and refractory minerals.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Calcining, dead burning, or otherwise processing (i.e., beyond basic preparation) clay or refractory
          minerals--are classified in Industry 32799, All Other Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing;
         Shaping, molding, baking, burning, or hardening nonclay ceramics, clay and nonclay refractories, and
          structural clay products--are classified in Industry 32712, Clay Building Material and Refractories
          Manufacturing; and
         Shaping, molding, glazing, and firing pottery, ceramics, and plumbing fixtures--are classified in Industry
          32711, Pottery, Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing.

212321 Construction Sand and Gravel Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) operating
commercial grade (i.e., construction) sand and gravel pits; (2) dredging for commercial grade sand and gravel; and
(3) washing, screening, or otherwise preparing commercial grade sand and gravel.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in mining industrial grade sand are classified in U.S. Industry 212322, Industrial
Sand Mining.

212322 Industrial Sand Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) operating
industrial grade sand pits; (2) dredging for industrial grade sand; and (3) washing, screening, or otherwise preparing
industrial grade sand.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in mining commercial (i.e., construction) grade gravel are classified in U.S.
Industry 212321, Construction Sand and Gravel Mining.

212324 Kaolin and Ball Clay Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site and/or mining
kaolin or ball clay (e.g., china clay, paper clay, and slip clay) and (2) establishments primarily engaged in
beneficiating (i.e., preparing) kaolin or ball clay.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in calcining, dead burning, or otherwise processing (i.e., beyond basic
preparation) kaolin and ball clay are classified in U.S. Industry 327992, Ground or Treated Mineral and Earth
Manufacturing.

212325 Clay and Ceramic and Refractory Minerals Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) mining clay
(except kaolin and ball), ceramic, or refractory minerals; (2) developing the mine site for clay, ceramic, or refractory
minerals; and (3) beneficiating (i.e., preparing) clay (except kaolin and ball), ceramic, or refractory minerals.

Illustrative Examples:

Bentonite mining and/or beneficiating
Fuller's earth mining and/or beneficiating
Common clay mining and/or beneficiating
Magnesite mining and/or beneficiating
Feldspar mining and/or beneficiating
Nepheline syenite mining and/or beneficiating
Fire clay mining and/or beneficiating
Shale (except oil shale) mining and/or beneficiating

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Shaping, molding, baking, burning, or hardening clay and nonclay refractories, and structural clay
          products--are classified in Industry 327120, Clay Building Material and Refractories Manufacturing;
         Developing the mine site, mining, and/or beneficiating kaolin or ball clay--are classified in U.S. Industry
          212324, Kaolin and Ball Clay Mining; and
         Shaping, molding, glazing, and firing pottery, ceramics, and plumbing fixtures--are classified in Industry
          327110, Pottery, Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing.

21239     Other Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, and/or milling or
otherwise beneficiating (i.e., preparing) nonmetallic minerals (except coal, stone, sand, gravel, clay, ceramic, and
refractory minerals).

Illustrative Examples:

Barite mining and/or beneficiating
Phosphate rock mining and/or beneficiating
Borate, natural, mining and/or beneficiating
Potash mining and/or beneficiating
Peat mining and/or beneficiating
Rock salt mining and/or beneficiating

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Mining or quarrying dimension stone--are classified in Industry 21231, Stone Mining and Quarrying;
         Mining or quarrying sand, gravel, clay and ceramic and refractory minerals--are classified in Industry
          21232, Sand, Gravel, Clay, and Ceramic and Refractory Minerals Mining and Quarrying;
         Calcining, dead burning, or otherwise processing (i.e., beyond basic preparation) minerals, such as talc,
          mica, feldspar, barite, and soapstone--are classified in Industry 32799, All Other Nonmetallic Mineral
          Product Manufacturing;
         Manufacturing boron compounds and potassium salts--are classified in Industry 32518, Other Basic
          Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing;
         Manufacturing table salt--are classified in Industry 31194, Seasoning and Dressing Manufacturing;
         Manufacturing salt (except table salt)--are classified in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product and
          Preparation Manufacturing; and
         Manufacturing phosphoric acid, superphosphates, or other phosphatic fertilizer materials--are classified in
          Industry 32531, Fertilizer Manufacturing.

212391 Potash, Soda, and Borate Mineral Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining and/or milling,
or otherwise beneficiating (i.e., preparing) natural potassium, sodium, or boron compounds. Drylake brine
operations are included in this industry, as well as establishments engaged in producing the specified minerals from
underground and open pit mines.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Manufacturing sodium carbonate, boron compounds, and/or potassium salts--are classified in Industry
          325180, Other Basic Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing; and
         Manufacturing table salt--are classified in U.S. Industry 311942, Spice and Extract Manufacturing.

212392 Phosphate Rock Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, milling,
and/or drying or otherwise beneficiating (i.e., preparing) phosphate rock.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing phosphoric acid, superphosphates, or other phosphatic
fertilizer materials are classified in U.S. Industry 325312, Phosphatic Fertilizer Manufacturing.

212393 Other Chemical and Fertilizer Mineral Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining, milling,
and/or drying or otherwise beneficiating (i.e., preparing) chemical or fertilizer mineral raw materials (except potash,
soda, boron, and phosphate rock).

Illustrative Examples:

Barite mining and/or beneficiating
Rock salt mining and/or beneficiating
Celestite mining and/or beneficiating
Sulfur mining and/or beneficiating
Fluorspar mining and/or beneficiating

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Mining and/or milling or otherwise beneficiating natural potassium, sodium, or boron compounds--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 212391, Potash, Soda, and Borate Mineral Mining;
         Manufacturing industrial salt--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other Miscellaneous Chemical
          Product and Preparation Manufacturing;
         Mining, milling, drying, and/or sintering or otherwise beneficiating phosphate rock--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 212392, Phosphate Rock Mining; and
         Manufacturing table salt--are classified in U.S. Industry 311942, Spice and Extract Manufacturing.

212399 All Other Nonmetallic Mineral Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing the mine site, mining and/or milling
or otherwise beneficiating (i.e., preparing) nonmetallic minerals (except stone, sand, gravel, clay, ceramic, refractory
minerals, chemical and fertilizer minerals).

Illustrative Examples:

Gypsum mining and/or beneficiating
Soapstone mining and/or beneficiating
Mica mining and/or beneficiating
Talc mining and/or beneficiating
Pyrophyllite mining and/or beneficiating

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Mining or quarrying stone--are classified in Industry 21231, Stone Mining and Quarrying;
         Mining, quarrying, or beneficiating sand, gravel, clay, and ceramic and refractory minerals--are classified
          in Industry 21232, Sand, Gravel, Clay, and Ceramic and Refractory Minerals Mining and Quarrying;
         Mining, quarrying or beneficiating natural potash, soda, and borate--are classified in U.S. Industry 212391,
          Potash, Soda, and Borate Mineral Mining; and
         Mining and/or milling or otherwise beneficiating phosphate rock--are classified in U.S. Industry 212392,
          Phosphate Rock Mining.

213       Support Activities for Mining    T



  Industries in the Support Activities for Mining subsector group establishments primarily providing support
services, on a contract or fee basis, required for the mining and quarrying of minerals and for the extraction of oil
and gas. Establishments performing exploration (except geophysical surveying and mapping) for minerals, on a
contract or fee basis, are included in this subsector. Exploration includes traditional prospecting methods, such as
taking core samples and making geological observations at prospective sites.
  The activities performed on a contract or fee basis by establishments in the Support Activities for Mining
subsector are also often performed in-house by mining operators. These activities include: taking core samples,
making geological observations at prospective sites, excavating slush pits and cellars, and such oil and gas
operations as spudding in, drilling in, redrilling, directional drilling, well surveying; running, cutting, and pulling
casings, tubes and rods; cementing wells, shooting wells; perforating well casings; acidizing and chemically treating
wells; and cleaning out, bailing, and swabbing wells.

2131      Support Activities for Mining    T



21311     Support Activities for Mining    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing support services, on a contract or fee basis,
required for the mining and quarrying of minerals and for the extraction of oil and gas. Drilling, taking core
samples, and making geological observations at prospective sites (except geophysical surveying and mapping) for
minerals, on a contract or fee basis, are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Performing geophysical surveying and mapping services for minerals (i.e., coal, metal ores, oil and gas, and
         nonmetallic minerals) on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry 54136, Geophysical Surveying
         and Mapping Services;
        Mining, quarrying, and/or beneficiating on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Subsector 212, Mining
         (except Oil and Gas), based on the mineral mined; and
        Operating oil and gas field properties on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Subsector 211, Oil and
         Gas Extraction, based on the activity.

213111 Drilling Oil and Gas Wells

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in drilling oil and gas wells for others on a contract
or fee basis. This industry includes contractors that specialize in spudding in, drilling in, redrilling, and directional
drilling.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Performing exploration (except geophysical surveying and mapping) services for oil and gas on a contract
         or fee basis--are classified in U.S. Industry 213112, Support Activities for Oil and Gas Operations; and
        Performing geophysical surveying and mapping services for oil and gas on a contract or fee basis--are
         classified in Industry 541360, Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services.

213112 Support Activities for Oil and Gas Operations

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing support activities on a contract or
fee basis for oil and gas operations (except site preparation and related construction activities). Services included
are exploration (except geophysical surveying and mapping); excavating slush pits and cellars, well surveying;
running, cutting, and pulling casings, tubes, and rods; cementing wells, shooting wells; perforating well casings;
acidizing and chemically treating wells; and cleaning out, bailing, and swabbing wells.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Contract drilling for oil and gas--are classified in U.S. Industry 213111, Drilling Oil and Gas Wells;
        Operating oil and gas field properties on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry 21111, Oil and
         Gas Extraction;
        Performing geophysical surveying and mapping services for oil and gas on a contract or fee basis--are
         classified in Industry 541360, Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services;
        Oil and gas pipeline and related structures construction--are classified in Industry 237120, Oil and Gas
         Pipeline and Related Structures Construction; and
        Site preparation and related construction activities on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry
         238910, Site Preparation Contractors.

213113 Support Activities for Coal Mining

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing support activities for coal mining
(except site preparation and related construction activities) on a contract or fee basis. Exploration for coal is
included in this industry. Exploration includes traditional prospecting methods, such as taking core samples and
making geological observations at prospective sites.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Performing geophysical surveying and mapping services for coal on a contract or fee basis--are classified in
         Industry 541360, Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services;
        Operating coal mines or quarries on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry 21211, Coal Mining,
         based on the type of coal mined; and

        Site preparation and related construction activities on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry
         238910, Site Preparation Contractors.

213114 Support Activities for Metal Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing support activities (except site
preparation and related construction activities) on a contract or fee basis for the mining and quarrying of metallic
minerals and for the extraction of metal ores. Exploration for these minerals is included in this industry.
Exploration (except geophysical surveying and mapping services) includes traditional prospecting methods, such as
taking core samples and making geological observations at prospective sites.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Performing geophysical surveying and mapping services for metallic minerals on a contract or fee basis--
         are classified in Industry 541360, Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services;
        Operating metallic mineral mines or quarries on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry Group
         2122, Metal Ore Mining, based on the type of ore mined; and
        Site preparation and related construction activities on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry
         238910, Site Preparation Contractors.

213115 Support Activities for Nonmetallic Minerals (except Fuels) Mining

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing support activities, on a fee or contract
basis, for the mining and quarrying of nonmetallic minerals (except fuel) and for the extraction of nonmetallic
minerals (except site preparation and related construction activities). Exploration for these minerals is included in
this industry. Exploration (except geophysical surveying and mapping services) includes traditional prospecting
methods, such as taking core samples and making geological observations at prospective sites.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Performing geophysical surveying and mapping services for nonmetallic minerals on a contract or fee
         basis--are classified in Industry 541360, Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services;
        Operating nonmetallic mineral mines or quarries on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry Group
         2123, Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying, based on the type of mineral mined or quarried; and
        Site preparation and related construction activities--are classified in Industry 238910, Site Preparation
         Contractors.

                                             Sector 22--Utilities              T


                                               The Sector as a Whole

  The Utilities sector comprises establishments engaged in the provision of the following utility services: electric
power, natural gas, steam supply, water supply, and sewage removal. Within this sector, the specific activities
associated with the utility services provided vary by utility: electric power includes generation, transmission, and
distribution; natural gas includes distribution; steam supply includes provision and/or distribution; water supply
includes treatment and distribution; and sewage removal includes collection, treatment, and disposal of waste
through sewer systems and sewage treatment facilities.
  Excluded from this sector are establishments primarily engaged in waste management services classified in
Subsector 562, Waste Management and Remediation Services. These establishments also collect, treat, and dispose
of waste materials; however, they do not use sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities.

221       Utilities

  Industries in the Utilities subsector provide electric power, natural gas, steam supply, water supply, and sewage
removal through a permanent infrastructure of lines, mains, and pipes. Establishments are grouped together based
on the utility service provided and the particular system or facilities required to perform the service.

2211      Electric Power Generation, Transmission and Distribution

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in generating, transmitting, and/or distributing
electric power. Establishments in this industry group may perform one or more of the following activities: (1)
operate generation facilities that produce electric energy; (2) operate transmission systems that convey the electricity
from the generation facility to the distribution system; and (3) operate distribution systems that convey electric
power received from the generation facility or the transmission system to the final consumer.

22111     Electric Power Generation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating electric power generation facilities. These
facilities convert other forms of energy, such as water power (i.e., hydroelectric), fossil fuels, nuclear power, and
solar power, into electrical energy. The establishments in this industry produce electric energy and provide
electricity to transmission systems or to electric power distribution systems.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in operating trash incinerators that also generate electricity are classified in
Industry 56221, Waste Treatment and Disposal.

221111 Hydroelectric Power Generation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating hydroelectric power generation
facilities. These facilities use water power to drive a turbine and produce electric energy. The electric energy
produced in these establishments is provided to electric power transmission systems or to electric power distribution
systems.

221112 Fossil Fuel Electric Power Generation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating fossil fuel powered electric power
generation facilities. These facilities use fossil fuels, such as coal, oil, or gas, in internal combustion or combustion
turbine conventional steam process to produce electric energy. The electric energy produced in these establishments
is provided to electric power transmission systems or to electric power distribution systems.

221113 Nuclear Electric Power Generation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating nuclear electric power generation
facilities. These facilities use nuclear power to produce electric energy. The electric energy produced in these
establishments is provided to electric power transmission systems or to electric power distribution systems.

221114 Solar Electric Power Generation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating solar electric power generation
facilities. These facilities use energy from the sun to produce electric energy. The electric energy produced in these
establishments is provided to electric power transmission systems or to electric power distribution systems.

221115 Wind Electric Power Generation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating wind electric power generation
facilities. These facilities use wind power to drive a turbine and produce electric energy. The electric energy
produced in these establishments is provided to electric power transmission systems or to electric power distribution
systems.

221116 Geothermal Electric Power Generation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating geothermal electric power generation
facilities. These facilities use heat derived from the Earth to produce electric energy. The electric energy produced
in these establishments is provided to electric power transmission systems or to electric power distribution systems.

221117 Biomass Electric Power Generation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating biomass electric power generation
facilities. These facilities use biomass (e.g., wood, waste, alcohol fuels) to produce electric energy. The electric
energy produced in these establishments is provided to electric power transmission systems or to electric power
distribution systems.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in operating trash disposal incinerators that also generate electricity are
classified in U.S. Industry 562213, Solid Waste Combustors and Incinerators.

221118 Other Electric Power Generation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating electric power generation facilities
(except hydroelectric, fossil fuel, nuclear, solar, wind, geothermal, biomass). These facilities convert other forms of
energy, such as tidal power, into electric energy. The electric energy produced in these establishments is provided to
electric power transmission systems or to electric power distribution systems.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating trash disposal incinerators that also generate electricity--are classified in U.S. Industry 562213,
          Solid Waste Combustors and Incinerators;
         Operating hydroelectric power generation facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 221111, Hydroelectric
          Power Generation;
         Operating fossil fuel powered electric power generation facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 221112,
          Fossil Fuel Electric Power Generation;
         Operating nuclear electric power generation facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 221113, Nuclear
          Electric Power Generation;
         Operating solar electric power generation facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 221114, Solar Electric
          Power Generation;

        Operating wind electric power generation facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 221115, Wind Electric
         Power Generation;

        Operating geothermal electric power generation facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 221116,
         Geothermal Electric Power Generation; and

        Operating biomass electric power generation facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 221117, Biomass
         Electric Power Generation.

22112    Electric Power Transmission, Control, and Distribution

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating electric power transmission systems,
controlling (i.e., regulating voltages) the transmission of electricity, and/or distributing electricity. The transmission
system includes lines and transformer stations. These establishments arrange, facilitate, or coordinate the
transmission of electricity from the generating source to the distribution centers, other electric utilities, or final
consumers. The distribution system consists of lines, poles, meters, and wiring that deliver the electricity to final
consumers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in generating electric energy are classified in Industry 22111, Electric Power
Generation.

221121 Electric Bulk Power Transmission and Control

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating electric power transmission systems
and/or controlling (i.e., regulating voltages) the transmission of electricity from the generating source to distribution
centers or other electric utilities. The transmission system includes lines and transformer stations.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Generating electric energy--are classified in Industry 22111, Electric Power Generation; and
        Distributing electricity to final consumers--are classified in U.S. Industry 221122, Electric Power
         Distribution.

221122 Electric Power Distribution

  This U.S. industry comprises electric power establishments primarily engaged in either (1) operating electric
power distribution systems (i.e., consisting of lines, poles, meters, and wiring) or (2) operating as electric power
brokers or agents that arrange the sale of electricity via power distribution systems operated by others.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Generating electric energy--are classified in Industry 22111, Electric Power Generation; and
        Transmitting electricity between generating sources or distribution centers--are classified in U.S. Industry
         221121, Electric Bulk Power Transmission and Control.

2212     Natural Gas Distribution

22121    Natural Gas Distribution
         See industry description for 221210 below.

221210 Natural Gas Distribution

  This industry comprises: (1) establishments primarily engaged in operating gas distribution systems (e.g., mains,
meters); (2) establishments known as gas marketers that buy gas from the well and sell it to a distribution system;

(3) establishments known as gas brokers or agents that arrange the sale of gas over gas distribution systems operated
by others; and (4) establishments primarily engaged in transmitting and distributing gas to final consumers.

Cross-References.              Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Pipeline transportation of natural gas from process plants to local distribution systems--are classified in
          Industry 486210, Pipeline Transportation of Natural Gas; and
         Retailing liquefied petroleum (LP) gas via direct selling--are classified in Industry 454310, Fuel Dealers.

2213      Water, Sewage and Other Systems

22131     Water Supply and Irrigation Systems
          See industry description for 221310 below.

221310 Water Supply and Irrigation Systems

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating water treatment plants and/or operating
water supply systems. The water supply system may include pumping stations, aqueducts, and/or distribution
mains. The water may be used for drinking, irrigation, or other uses.

22132     Sewage Treatment Facilities
          See industry description for 221320 below.

221320 Sewage Treatment Facilities

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating sewer systems or sewage treatment
facilities that collect, treat, and dispose of waste.

Cross-References.              Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating waste treatment or disposal facilities (except sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities)--are
          classified in Industry 56221, Waste Treatment and Disposal;
         Pumping (i.e., cleaning) septic tanks and cesspools--are classified in U.S. Industry 562991, Septic Tank and
          Related Services; and
         Cleaning and rodding sewers and catch basins--are classified in U.S. Industry 562998, All Other
          Miscellaneous Waste Management Services.

22133     Steam and Air-Conditioning Supply
          See industry description for 221330 below.

221330 Steam and Air-Conditioning Supply

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing steam, heated air, or cooled air. The steam
distribution may be through mains.

                                         Sector 23--Construction                 T


                                               The Sector as a Whole

  The Construction sector comprises establishments primarily engaged in the construction of buildings or
engineering projects (e.g., highways and utility systems). Establishments primarily engaged in the preparation of
sites for new construction and establishments primarily engaged in subdividing land for sale as building sites also
are included in this sector.
  Construction work done may include new work, additions, alterations, or maintenance and repairs. Activities of
these establishments generally are managed at a fixed place of business, but they usually perform construction
activities at multiple project sites. Production responsibilities for establishments in this sector are usually specified
in (1) contracts with the owners of construction projects (prime contracts) or (2) contracts with other construction
establishments (subcontracts).
  Establishments primarily engaged in contracts that include responsibility for all aspects of individual construction
projects are commonly known as general contractors, but also may be known as design-builders, construction
managers, turnkey contractors, or (in cases where two or more establishments jointly secure a general contract)
joint-venture contractors. Construction managers that provide oversight and scheduling only (i.e., agency) as well as
construction managers that are responsible for the entire project (i.e., at risk) are included as general contractor type
establishments. Establishments of the "general contractor type" frequently arrange construction of separate parts of
their projects through subcontracts with other construction establishments.
  Establishments primarily engaged in activities to produce a specific component (e.g., masonry, painting, and
electrical work) of a construction project are commonly known as specialty trade contractors. Activities of specialty
trade contractors are usually subcontracted from other construction establishments, but especially in remodeling and
repair construction, the work may be done directly for the owner of the property.
  Establishments primarily engaged in activities to construct buildings to be sold on sites that they own are known as
for-sale builders, but also may be known as speculative builders or merchant builders. For-sale builders produce
buildings in a manner similar to general contractors, but their production processes also include site acquisition and
securing of financial backing. For-sale builders are most often associated with the construction of residential
buildings. Like general contractors, they may subcontract all or part of the actual construction work on their
buildings.
  There are substantial differences in the types of equipment, work force skills, and other inputs required by
establishments in this sector. To highlight these differences and variations in the underlying production functions,
this sector is divided into three subsectors.
   Subsector 236, Construction of Buildings, comprises establishments of the general contractor type and for-sale
builders involved in the construction of buildings. Subsector 237, Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction,
comprises establishments involved in the construction of engineering projects. Subsector 238, Specialty Trade
Contractors, comprises establishments engaged in specialty trade activities generally needed in the construction of
all types of buildings.
  Force account construction is construction work performed by an enterprise primarily engaged in some business
other than construction for its own account, using employees of the enterprise. This activity is not included in the
construction sector unless the construction work performed is the primary activity of a separate establishment of the
enterprise. The installation and the ongoing repair and maintenance of telecommunications and utility networks is
excluded from construction when the establishments performing the work are not independent contractors.
Although a growing proportion of this work is subcontracted to independent contractors in the Construction sector,
the operating units of telecommunications and utility companies performing this work are included with the
telecommunications or utility activities.

236       Construction of Buildings    T



  The Construction of Buildings subsector comprises establishments primarily responsible for the construction of
buildings. The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, or maintenance and repairs. The on-
site assembly of precut, panelized, and prefabricated buildings and construction of temporary buildings are included
in this subsector. Part or all of the production work for which the establishments in this subsector have
responsibility may be subcontracted to other construction establishments--usually specialty trade contractors.

  Establishments in this subsector are classified based on the types of buildings they construct. This classification
reflects variations in the requirements of the underlying production processes.

2361     Residential Building Construction     T



23611    Residential Building Construction     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily responsible for the construction or remodeling and renovation of
single-family and multifamily residential buildings. Included in this industry are residential housing general
contractors (i.e., new construction, remodeling, or renovating existing residential structures), for-sale builders and
remodelers of residential structures, residential project construction management firms, and residential design-build
firms.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Performing specialized construction work on houses and other residential buildings, generally on a
         subcontract basis--are classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors;
        Performing manufactured (mobile) home setup and tie-down work--are classified in Industry 23899, All
         Other Specialty Trade Contractors; and
        Constructing and leasing residential buildings on their own account--are classified in Industry 53111,
         Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings.

236115 New Single-Family Housing Construction (except For-Sale Builders)

  This U.S. industry comprises general contractor establishments primarily responsible for the entire construction of
new single-family housing, such as single-family detached houses and town houses or row houses where each
housing unit (1) is separated from its neighbors by a ground-to-roof wall and (2) has no housing units constructed
above or below. This industry includes general contractors responsible for the on-site assembly of modular and
prefabricated houses. Single-family housing design-build firms and single-family construction management firms
acting as general contractors are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Building single-family houses on their own account for sale as speculative builders or merchant builders--
         are classified in U.S. Industry 236117, New Housing For-Sale Builders;
        Remodeling or repairing existing houses and other residential buildings--are classified in U.S. Industry
         236118, Residential Remodelers;
        Performing manufactured (mobile) home set up and tie-down work--are classified in Industry 238990, All
         Other Specialty Trade Contractors;
        Performing specialized construction work on houses and other residential buildings, generally on a
         subcontract basis--are classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors; and
        Constructing and leasing residential buildings on their own account--are classified in Industry 531110,
         Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings.

236116 New Multifamily Housing Construction (except For-Sale Builders)

  This U.S. industry comprises general contractor establishments primarily responsible for the construction of new
multifamily residential housing units (e.g., high-rise, garden, town house apartments, and condominiums where each
unit is not separated from its neighbors by a ground-to-roof wall). Multifamily design-build firms and multifamily
housing construction management firms acting as general contractors are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Building multifamily buildings on their own account for sale as speculative builders or merchant builders--
         are classified in U.S. Industry 236117, New Housing For-Sale Builders;

        Remodeling or repairing existing multifamily housing and other residential buildings--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 236118, Residential Remodelers;
        Performing specialized construction work on multifamily housing and other residential buildings, generally
         on a subcontract basis--are classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors; and
        Constructing and leasing residential buildings on their own account--are classified in Industry 531110,
         Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings.

236117 New Housing For-Sale Builders

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in building new homes on land that is owned or
controlled by the builder rather than the homebuyer or investor. The land is included with the sale of the home.
Establishments in this industry build single and/or multifamily homes. These establishments are often referred to as
merchant builders, but are also known as production or for-sale builders.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Building single-family houses for others as general contractors--are classified in U.S. Industry 236115,
         New Single-Family Housing Construction (except For-Sale Builders);
        Building multifamily residential buildings for others as general contractors--are classified in U.S. Industry
         236116, New Multifamily Housing Construction (except For-Sale Builders);
        Remodeling or repairing existing houses and other residential buildings, either for others or on own account
         for sale--are classified in U.S. Industry 236118, Residential Remodelers;
        Performing specialized construction work on houses or other residential buildings, generally on a
         subcontract basis--are classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors; and
        Constructing and leasing residential buildings on their own account--are classified in Industry 531110,
         Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings.

236118 Residential Remodelers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily responsible for the remodeling construction (including
additions, alterations, reconstruction, maintenance, and repair work) of houses and other residential buildings,
single-family, and multifamily. Included in this industry are remodeling general contractors, for-sale remodelers,
remodeling design-build firms, and remodeling project construction management firms.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Building single-family houses for others as general contractors--are classified in U.S. Industry 236115,
         New Single-Family Housing Construction (except For-Sale Builders);
        Building multifamily buildings for others as general contractors--are classified in U.S. Industry 236116,
         New Multifamily Housing Construction (except For-Sale Builders);
        Building houses or other residential buildings, on their own account for sale as speculative builders or
         merchant builders--are classified in U.S. Industry 236117, New Housing For-Sale Builders;
        Remodeling nonresidential buildings--are classified in Industry Group 2362, Nonresidential Building
         Construction, based on the type of structure being remodeled;
        Performing specialized construction work on houses or other residential buildings generally on a
         subcontract basis--are classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors; and
        23611Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings.

2362     Nonresidential Building Construction      T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily responsible for the construction (including new work,
additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs) of nonresidential buildings. This industry group includes
nonresidential general contractors, nonresidential for-sale builders, nonresidential design-build firms, and
nonresidential project construction management firms.

23621    Industrial Building Construction     T

          See industry description for 236210 below.

236210 Industrial Building Construction

  This industry comprises establishments primarily responsible for the construction (including new work, additions,
alterations, maintenance, and repairs) of industrial buildings (except warehouses). The construction of selected
additional structures, whose production processes are similar to those for industrial buildings (e.g., incinerators,
cement plants, blast furnaces, and similar nonbuilding structures), is included in this industry. Included in this
industry are industrial building general contractors, industrial building for-sale builders, industrial building design-
build firms, and industrial building construction management firms.

Illustrative Examples:

Assembly plant construction
Furnace, industrial plant, construction
Cannery construction
Mine loading and discharging station construction
Cement plant construction
Paper or pulp mill construction
Chemical plant (except petrochemical) construction
Pharmaceutical manufacturing plant construction
Factory construction
Steel mill construction
Food processing plant construction
Waste disposal plant (except sewage treatment) construction

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Constructing oil refineries and petrochemical plants--are classified in Industry 237120, Oil and Gas
          Pipeline and Related Structures Construction;
         Constructing water treatment plants, sewage treatment plants, and pumping stations for water and sewer
          systems--are classified in Industry 237110, Water and Sewer Line and Related Structures Construction;
         Constructing power generation plants (except hydroelectric)--are classified in Industry 237130, Power and
          Communication Line and Related Structures Construction;
         Constructing industrial warehouses--are classified in Industry 236220, Commercial and Institutional
          Building Construction; and
         Performing specialized construction work on industrial buildings, generally on a subcontract basis--are
          classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors.

23622     Commercial and Institutional Building Construction       T

          See industry description for 236220 below.

236220 Commercial and Institutional Building Construction

  This industry comprises establishments primarily responsible for the construction (including new work, additions,
alterations, maintenance, and repairs) of commercial and institutional buildings and related structures, such as
stadiums, grain elevators, and indoor swimming facilities. This industry includes establishments responsible for the
on-site assembly of modular or prefabricated commercial and institutional buildings. Included in this industry are
commercial and institutional building general contractors, commercial and institutional building for-sale builders,
commercial and institutional building design-build firms, and commercial and institutional building project
construction management firms.

Illustrative Examples:

Airport building construction
Office building construction

Arena construction
Parking garage construction
Barrack construction
Prison construction
Farm building construction
Radio and television broadcast studio construction
Fire station construction
Religious building (e.g., church, synagogue, mosque, temple) construction
Grain elevator construction
Restaurant construction
Hospital construction
School building construction
Hotel construction
Shopping mall construction
Indoor swimming facility construction
Warehouse construction (e.g., commercial, industrial, manufacturing, private)

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Constructing structures that are integral parts of utility systems (e.g., storage tanks, pumping stations) or are
          used to produce products for these systems (e.g., power plants, refineries)--are classified in Industry Group
          2371, Utility System Construction, based on type of construction project;
         Performing specialized construction work on commercial and institutional buildings, generally on a
          subcontract basis--are classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors; and
         Constructing buildings on their own account for rent or lease--are classified in Industry Group 5311,
          Lessors of Real Estate.

237       Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction         T



  The Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction subsector comprises establishments whose primary activity is the
construction of entire engineering projects (e.g., highways and dams), and specialty trade contractors, whose
primary activity is the production of a specific component for such projects. Specialty trade contractors in Heavy
and Civil Engineering Construction generally are performing activities that are specific to heavy and civil
engineering construction projects and are not normally performed on buildings. The work performed may include
new work, additions, alterations, or maintenance and repairs.
  Specialty trade activities are classified in this subsector if the skills and equipment present are specific to heavy or
civil engineering construction projects. For example, specialized equipment is needed to paint lines on highways.
This equipment is not normally used in building applications so the activity is classified in this subsector. Traffic
signal installation, while specific to highways, uses much of the same skills and equipment that are needed for
electrical work in building projects and is therefore classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors.
  Construction projects involving water resources (e.g., dredging and land drainage) and projects involving open
space improvement (e.g., parks and trails) are included in this subsector. Establishments whose primary activity is
the subdivision of land into individual building lots usually perform various additional site-improvement activities
(e.g., road building and utility line installation) and are included in this subsector.
  Establishments in this subsector are classified based on the types of structures that they construct. This
classification reflects variations in the requirements of the underlying production processes.

2371      Utility System Construction     T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the construction of distribution lines and
related buildings and structures for utilities (i.e., water, sewer, petroleum, gas, power, and communication). All
structures (including buildings) that are integral parts of utility systems (e.g., storage tanks, pumping stations, power
plants, and refineries) are included in this industry group.

23711     Water and Sewer Line and Related Structures Construction             T

          See industry description for 237110 below.

237110 Water and Sewer Line and Related Structures Construction

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the construction of water and sewer lines, mains,
pumping stations, treatment plants, and storage tanks. The work performed may include new work, reconstruction,
rehabilitation, and repairs. Specialty trade contractors are included in this group if they are engaged in activities
primarily related to water, sewer line, and related structures construction. All structures (including buildings) that
are integral parts of water and sewer networks (e.g., storage tanks, pumping stations, water treatment plants, and
sewage treatment plants) are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Distribution line, sewer and water, construction
Sewer main, pipe, and connection, construction
Fire hydrant installation
Storm sewer construction
Irrigation systems construction
Water main and line construction
Pumping station, water and sewage system, construction
Water system storage tank and tower construction
Reservoir construction
Water treatment plant construction
Sewage disposal plant construction
Water well drilling, digging, boring, or sinking (except water intake wells in oil and gas fields)

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in constructing marine facilities (e.g., ports), flood control structures, dams, or
hydroelectric power generation facilities are classified in Industry 237990, Other Heavy and Civil Engineering
Construction.

23712     Oil and Gas Pipeline and Related Structures Construction        T

          See industry description for 237120 below.

237120 Oil and Gas Pipeline and Related Structures Construction

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the construction of oil and gas lines, mains,
refineries, and storage tanks. The work performed may include new work, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and
repairs. Specialty trade contractors are included in this group if they are engaged in activities primarily related to oil
and gas pipeline and related structures construction. All structures (including buildings) that are integral parts of oil
and gas networks (e.g., storage tanks, pumping stations, and refineries) are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Distribution line, gas and oil, construction
Oil refinery construction
Gas main construction
Petrochemical plant construction
Gathering line, gas and oil field, construction
Pumping station, gas and oil transmission, construction
Natural gas pipeline construction
Storage tank, natural gas or oil, tank farm or field, construction
Natural gas processing plant construction

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in building chemical plants (except petrochemical) and similar process or batch
facilities are classified in Industry 236210, Industrial Building Construction.

23713     Power and Communication Line and Related Structures Construction             T

          See industry description for 237130 below.

237130 Power and Communication Line and Related Structures Construction

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the construction of power lines and towers, power
plants, and radio, television, and telecommunications transmitting/receiving towers. The work performed may
include new work, reconstruction, rehabilitation, and repairs. Specialty trade contractors are included in this group
if they are engaged in activities primarily related to power and communication line and related structures
construction. All structures (including buildings) that are integral parts of power and communication networks (e.g.,
transmitting towers, substations, and power plants) are included.

Illustrative Examples:

Alternative energy (e.g., geothermal, ocean wave, solar, wind) structure construction
Power line stringing
Cellular phone tower construction
Radio transmitting tower construction
Co-generation plant construction
Satellite receiving station construction
Communication tower construction
Telephone line stringing
Electric light and power plant (except hydroelectric) construction
Transformer station and substation, electric power, construction
Electric power transmission line and tower construction
Underground cable (e.g., cable television, electricity, telephone) laying
Nuclear power plant construction

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Constructing hydroelectric generating facilities--are classified in Industry 237990, Other Heavy and Civil
          Engineering Construction;
         Constructing broadcast studios and similar nonresidential buildings--are classified in Industry 236220,
          Commercial and Institutional Building Construction;
         Performing electrical work within buildings--are classified in Industry 238210, Electrical Contractors and
          Other Wiring Installation Contractors;
         Line slashing or cutting (except maintenance)--are classified in Industry 238910, Site Preparation
          Contractors;
         Installing and maintaining communication transmission lines performed by telecommunications
          companies--are classified in Subsector 517, Telecommunications;
         Locating underground utility lines prior to digging--are classified in Industry 561990, All Other Support
          Services; and
         Tree and brush trimming for overhead utility lines--are classified in Industry 561730, Landscaping
          Services.

2372      Land Subdivision     T



23721     Land Subdivision     T

          See industry description for 237210 below.

237210 Land Subdivision

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in servicing land and subdividing real property into lots,
for subsequent sale to builders. Servicing of land may include excavation work for the installation of roads and
utility lines. The extent of work may vary from project to project. Land subdivision precedes building activity and
the subsequent building is often residential, but may also be commercial tracts and industrial parks. These
establishments may do all the work themselves or subcontract the work to others. Establishments that perform only
the legal subdivision of land are not included in this industry.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Constructing buildings, for sale, on lots they subdivide--are classified based on the type of construction
          project, in Industry Group 2361, Residential Building Construction, or Industry Group 2362,
          Nonresidential Building Construction;
         Installing roads on a subcontract basis for land subdividers--are classified in Industry 237310, Highway,
          Street, and Bridge Construction;
         Installing utilities on a subcontract basis for land subdividers--are classified in Industry Group 2371, Utility
          System Construction;
         Preparing land owned by others for building construction--are classified in Industry 238910, Site
          Preparation Contractors;
         Constructing buildings, for rent or own use, on lots they subdivide--are classified in Industry Group 5311,
          Lessors of Real Estate; and
         Legal subdivision of land without land preparation--are classified elsewhere in the classification system
          based on the primary activity of the establishment.

2373      Highway, Street, and Bridge Construction        T



23731     Highway, Street, and Bridge Construction        T

          See industry description for 237310 below.

237310 Highway, Street, and Bridge Construction

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the construction of highways (including elevated),
streets, roads, airport runways, public sidewalks, or bridges. The work performed may include new work,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, and repairs. Specialty trade contractors are included in this group if they are engaged
in activities primarily related to highway, street, and bridge construction (e.g., installing guardrails on highways).

Illustrative Examples:

Airport runway construction
Highway line painting
Causeway construction
Painting traffic lanes or parking lot lines
Culverts, highway, road, and street, construction
Pothole filling, highway, road, street, or bridge
Elevated highway construction
Resurfacing, highway, road, street, or bridge
Guardrail construction
Sign erection, highway, road, street, or bridge

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Constructing tunnels--are classified in Industry 237990, Other Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction;
         Highway lighting and signal installation--are classified in Industry 238210, Electrical Contractors and
          Other Wiring Installation Contractors;
         Painting bridges--are classified in Industry 238320, Painting and Wall Covering Contractors; and
         Constructing parking lots, private driveways, sidewalks, or erecting billboards--are classified in Industry
          238990, All Other Specialty Trade Contractors.

2379      Other Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction          T



23799     Other Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction          T

          See industry description for 237990 below.

237990 Other Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in heavy and engineering construction projects
(excluding highway, street, bridge, and distribution line construction). The work performed may include new work,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, and repairs. Specialty trade contractors are included in this group if they are engaged
in activities primarily related to engineering construction projects (excluding highway, street, bridge, distribution
line, oil and gas structure, and utilities building and structure construction). Construction projects involving water
resources (e.g., dredging and land drainage), development of marine facilities, and projects involving open space
improvement (e.g., parks and trails) are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Channel construction
Land drainage contractors
Dam construction
Marine construction
Dock construction
Microtunneling contractors
Dredging (e.g., canal, channel, ditch, waterway)
Nuclear waste disposal site construction
Earth retention system construction
Park ground and recreational open space improvement construction
Flood control project construction
Railroad construction
Golf course construction
Subway construction
Horizontal drilling (e.g., cable, pipeline, sewer installation)
Trenching, underwater
Hydroelectric generating station construction
Tunnel construction

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Constructing water mains, sewers, and related structures--are classified in Industry 237110, Water and
          Sewer Line and Related Structures Construction;
         Constructing oil and gas pipelines and related structures--are classified in Industry 237120, Oil and Gas
          Pipeline and Related Structures Construction;
         Constructing power and communication transmission lines and related structures--are classified in Industry
          237130, Power and Communication Line and Related Structures Construction;
         Constructing highways, streets, and bridges--are classified in Industry 237310, Highway, Street, and Bridge
          Construction; and
         Trenching (except underwater)--are classified in Industry 238910, Site Preparation Contractors.

238       Specialty Trade Contractors      T



  The Specialty Trade Contractors subsector comprises establishments whose primary activity is performing specific
activities (e.g., pouring concrete, site preparation, plumbing, painting, and electrical work) involved in building
construction or other activities that are similar for all types of construction, but that are not responsible for the entire
project. The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs. The
production work performed by establishments in this subsector is usually subcontracted from establishments of the

general contractor type or for-sale builders, but especially in remodeling and repair construction, work also may be
done directly for the owner of the property. Specialty trade contractors usually perform most of their work at the
construction site, although they may have shops where they perform prefabrication and other work. Establishments
primarily engaged in preparing sites for new construction are also included in this subsector.
  There are substantial differences in types of equipment, work force skills, and other inputs required by specialty
trade contractors. Establishments in this subsector are classified based on the underlying production function for the
specialty trade in which they specialize. Throughout the Specialty Trade Contractors subsector, establishments
commonly provide both the parts and labor required to complete work. For example, electrical contractors supply
the current-carrying and noncurrent-carrying wiring devices that are required to install a circuit. Plumbing, heating,
and air-conditioning contractors also supply the parts required to complete a contract.
  Establishments that specialize in activities primarily related to heavy and civil engineering construction that are
not normally performed on buildings, such as the painting of lines on highways are classified in Subsector 237,
Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction.
  Establishments that are primarily engaged in selling construction materials are classified in Sector 42, Wholesale
Trade, or Sector 44-45, Retail Trade, based on the characteristics of the selling unit.

2381      Foundation, Structure, and Building Exterior Contractors       T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the specialty trades needed to complete the
basic structure (i.e., foundation, frame, and shell) of buildings. The work performed may include new work,
additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

23811     Poured Concrete Foundation and Structure Contractors
          See industry description for 238110 below.

238110 Poured Concrete Foundation and Structure Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in pouring and finishing concrete foundations and
structural elements. This industry also includes establishments performing grout and shotcrete work. The work
performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Concrete pouring and finishing
Gunite contractors
Concrete pumping (i.e., placement)
Mud-jacking contractors
Concrete work (except paving)
Shotcrete contractors
Footing and foundation concrete contractors

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Constructing or paving streets, highways, and public sidewalks--are classified in Industry 237310,
          Highway, Street, and Bridge Construction;
         Concrete sealing, coating, waterproofing, or dampproofing--are classified in Industry 238390, Other
          Building Finishing Contractors; and
         Paving residential driveways, commercial parking lots, and other private parking areas--are classified in
          Industry 238990, All Other Specialty Trade Contractors.

23812     Structural Steel and Precast Concrete Contractors
          See industry description for 238120 below.

238120 Structural Steel and Precast Concrete Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) erecting and assembling structural parts made
from steel or precast concrete (e.g., steel beams, structural steel components, and similar products of precast
concrete) and/or (2) assembling and installing other steel construction products (e.g., steel rods, bars, rebar, mesh,
and cages) to reinforce poured-in-place concrete. The work performed may include new work, additions,
alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Concrete product (e.g., structural precast, structural prestressed) installation
Rebar contractors
Erecting structural steel
Reinforcing steel contractors
Placing and tying reinforcing rod at a construction site
Structural steel contractors
Precast concrete panel, slab, or form installation

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in pouring concrete at the construction site for building foundations or structural
elements are classified in Industry 238110, Poured Concrete Foundation and Structure Contractors.

23813     Framing Contractors
          See industry description for 238130 below.

238130 Framing Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in structural framing and sheathing using materials
other than structural steel or concrete. The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations,
maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Building framing (except structural steel)
Post frame contractors
Foundation, building, wood, contractors
Steel framing contractors
Framing contractors
Wood frame component (e.g., truss) fabrication on site

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Finish carpentry--are classified in Industry 238350, Finish Carpentry Contractors; and
         Installing structural steel, precast concrete framing, or structural elements--are classified in Industry
          238120, Structural Steel and Precast Concrete Contractors.

23814     Masonry Contractors
          See industry description for 238140 below.

238140 Masonry Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in masonry work, stone setting, brick laying, and other
stone work. The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Block laying

Marble, granite, and slate, exterior, contractors
Brick laying
Masonry pointing, cleaning, or caulking
Concrete block laying
Stucco contractors
Foundation (e.g., brick, block, stone), building, contractors

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Erecting the basic structure of buildings by pouring concrete--are classified in Industry 238110, Poured
          Concrete Foundation and Structure Contractors;
         Interior marble, granite, and slate work--are classified in Industry 238340, Tile and Terrazzo Contractors;
          and
         Laying precast stones or bricks for patios, sidewalks, and driveways; or paving residential driveways,
          commercial parking lots and other private parking areas--are classified in Industry 238990, All Other
          Specialty Trade Contractors.

23815     Glass and Glazing Contractors
          See industry description for 238150 below.

238150 Glass and Glazing Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in installing glass panes in prepared openings (i.e.,
glazing work) and other glass work for buildings. The work performed may include new work, additions,
alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Decorative glass and mirror installation
Glazing contractors
Glass cladding installation
Stained glass installation
Glass coating and tinting (except automotive) contractors
Window pane or sheet installation
Glass installation (except automotive) contractors

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing prefabricated window units--are classified in Industry 238350, Finish Carpentry Contractors; and
         The replacement, repair, and/or tinting of automotive glass--are classified in U.S. Industry 811122,
          Automotive Glass Replacement Shops.

23816     Roofing Contractors
          See industry description for 238160 below.

238160 Roofing Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in roofing. This industry also includes establishments
treating roofs (i.e., spraying, painting, or coating) and installing skylights. The work performed may include new
work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Painting, spraying, or coating, roof
Sheet metal roofing installation
Shake and shingle, roof, installation

Skylight installation

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing roof trusses and sheathing attached to trusses--are classified in Industry 238130, Framing
          Contractors; and
         Installing downspouts, gutters, fascia, and soffits--are classified in Industry 238170, Siding Contractors.

23817     Siding Contractors
          See industry description for 238170 below.

238170 Siding Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in installing siding of wood, aluminum, vinyl, or other
exterior finish material (except brick, stone, stucco, or curtain wall). This industry also includes establishments
installing gutters and downspouts. The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance,
and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Downspout, gutter, and gutter guard installation
Siding (e.g., vinyl, wood, aluminum) installation
Fascia and soffit installation

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing brick, stone, or stucco building exterior finish materials--are classified in Industry 238140,
          Masonry Contractors;
         Installing curtain wall--are classified in Industry 238190, Other Foundation, Structure, and Building
          Exterior Contractors; and
         Installing sheet metal duct work--are classified in Industry 238220, Plumbing, Heating, and Air-
          Conditioning Contractors.

23819     Other Foundation, Structure, and Building Exterior Contractors
          See industry description for 238190 below.

238190 Other Foundation, Structure, and Building Exterior Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in building foundation and structure trades work
(except poured concrete, structural steel, precast concrete, framing, masonry, glass, glazing, roofing, and siding).
The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Curtain wall, metal, installation
Forms for poured concrete, erecting, and dismantling
Decorative steel and wrought iron work installation
Ornamental metal work installation
Fire escape installation
Welding, on site, contractors

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Poured concrete foundation and structure work--are classified in Industry 238110, Poured Concrete
          Foundation and Structure Contractors;

         Installation of structural steel or precast concrete building components--are classified in Industry 238120,
          Structural Steel and Precast Concrete Contractors;
         Framing buildings--are classified in Industry 238130, Framing Contractors;
         Masonry work--are classified in Industry 238140, Masonry Contractors;
         Glass and glazing work--are classified in Industry 238150, Glass and Glazing Contractors;
         Installing or repairing roofs--are classified in Industry 238160, Roofing Contractors;
         Installing siding--are classified in Industry 238170, Siding Contractors; and
         Fireproofing buildings--are classified in Industry 238310, Drywall and Insulation Contractors.

2382      Building Equipment Contractors        T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in installing or servicing equipment that forms
part of a building mechanical system (e.g., electricity, water, heating, and cooling). The work performed may
include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs. Contractors installing specialized building
equipment, such as elevators, escalators, service station equipment, and central vacuum cleaning systems are also
included.

23821     Electrical Contractors and Other Wiring Installation Contractors        T

          See industry description for 238210 below.

238210 Electrical Contractors and Other Wiring Installation Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in installing and servicing electrical wiring and
equipment. Contractors included in this industry may include both the parts and labor when performing work.
These contractors may perform new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Airport runway lighting contractors
Fiber optic cable (except transmission line) contractors
Alarm system (e.g., fire, burglar), electric, installation only
Highway, street, and bridge lighting and electrical signal installation
Audio equipment (except automotive) installation contractors
Home automation system installation
Cable splicing, electrical or fiber optic
Lighting system installation
Cable television hookup contractors
Telecommunications equipment and wiring (except transmission line) installation contractors
Computer and network cable installation
Traffic signal installation
Environmental control system installation

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing and maintaining telecommunications lines by telecommunications companies--are classified in
          Subsector 517, Telecommunications;
         Constructing power and communication transmission lines--are classified in Industry 237130, Power and
          Communication Line and Related Structures Construction; and
         Burglar and fire alarm installation combined with sales, maintenance, or monitoring services--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 561621, Security Systems Services (except Locksmiths).

23822     Plumbing, Heating, and Air-Conditioning Contractors          T

          See industry description for 238220 below.

238220 Plumbing, Heating, and Air-Conditioning Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in installing and servicing plumbing, heating, and air-
conditioning equipment. Contractors in this industry may provide both parts and labor when performing work. The
work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Cooling tower installation
Heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) contractors
Duct work (e.g., cooling, dust collection, exhaust, heating, ventilation) installation
Lawn sprinkler system installation
Fire sprinkler system installation
Mechanical contractors
Fireplace, natural gas, installation
Refrigeration system (e.g., commercial, industrial, scientific) installation
Furnace installation
Sewer hook-up and connection, building

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing electrical controls for HVAC systems--are classified in Industry 238210, Electrical Contractors
          and Other Wiring Installation Contractors;
         Duct cleaning--are classified in Industry 561790, Other Services to Buildings and Dwellings; and
         Installing septic tanks--are classified in Industry 238910, Site Preparation Contractors.

23829     Other Building Equipment Contractors         T

          See industry description for 238290 below.

238290 Other Building Equipment Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in installing or servicing building equipment (except
electrical, plumbing, heating, cooling, or ventilation equipment). The repair and maintenance of miscellaneous
building equipment is included in this industry. The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations,
maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Automated and revolving door installation
Lightning protection equipment (e.g., lightning rod) installation
Boiler and pipe insulation installation
Machine rigging
Commercial-type door installation
Millwrights
Conveyor system installation
Overhead door, commercial- or industrial-type, installation
Dismantling large-scale machinery and equipment
Revolving door installation
Elevator installation
Satellite dish, household-type, installation
Escalator installation
Vacuum cleaning system, built-in, installation
Gasoline pump, service station, installation

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Manufacturing of industrial equipment with incidental installation--are classified in Sector 31-33,
          Manufacturing; and

         Repair and maintenance of commercial refrigeration equipment or production equipment--are classified in
          Industry 811310, Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and
          Electronic) Repair and Maintenance.

2383      Building Finishing Contractors     T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the specialty trades needed to finish buildings.
The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

23831     Drywall and Insulation Contractors     T

          See industry description for 238310 below.

238310 Drywall and Insulation Contractors

   This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in drywall, plaster work, and building insulation work.
Plaster work includes applying plain or ornamental plaster, and installation of lath to receive plaster. The work
performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs. Establishments primarily
engaged in providing firestop services are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Acoustical ceiling tile and panel installation
Lathing contractors
Drop ceiling installation
Plastering (i.e., ornamental, plain) contractors
Drywall contractors
Soundproofing contractors
Firestop contractors
Fresco (i.e., decorative plaster finishing) contractors
Taping and finishing drywall
Gypsum board installation
Wall cavity and attic space insulation installation

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Applying stucco--are classified in Industry 238140, Masonry Contractors; and
         Insulating pipes and boilers--are classified in Industry 238290, Other Building Equipment Contractors.

23832     Painting and Wall Covering Contractors       T

          See industry description for 238320 below.

238320 Painting and Wall Covering Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in interior or exterior painting or interior wall covering.
The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Bridge painting
Paperhanging or removal contractors
House painting
Ship painting contractors
Paint and wallpaper stripping
Wallpaper hanging and removal contractors

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Painting lines on highways, streets, and parking lots--are classified in Industry 237310, Highway, Street,
          and Bridge Construction;
         Roof painting--are classified in Industry 238160, Roofing Contractors; and
         Installing wood paneling--are classified in Industry 238350, Finish Carpentry Contractors.

23833     Flooring Contractors    T

          See industry description for 238330 below.

238330 Flooring Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the installation of resilient floor tile, carpeting,
linoleum, and hardwood flooring. The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance,
and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Carpet, installation only
Resilient floor tile or sheet (e.g., linoleum, rubber, vinyl), installation only
Floor laying, scraping, finishing, and refinishing
Resurfacing hardwood flooring
Hardwood flooring, installation only
Vinyl flooring contractors

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Laying concrete flooring--are classified in Industry 238110, Poured Concrete Foundation and Structure
          Contractors;
         Installing fireproof flooring--are classified in Industry 238310, Drywall and Insulation Contractors;
         Installing stone or ceramic floor tile--are classified in Industry 238340, Tile and Terrazzo Contractors; and
         Selling and installing carpet and other flooring products as retail establishments--are classified in Sector
          44-45, Retail Trade.

23834     Tile and Terrazzo Contractors     T

          See industry description for 238340 below.

238340 Tile and Terrazzo Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in setting and installing ceramic tile, stone (interior
only), and mosaic and/or mixing marble particles and cement to make terrazzo at the job site. The work performed
may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Ceramic tile installation
Mosaic work
Mantel, marble or stone, installation
Stone flooring installation
Marble, granite, and slate, interior installation contractors
Tile (except resilient) laying and setting

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Exterior marble, granite, and slate work--are classified in Industry 238140, Masonry Contractors;
         Manufacturing precast terrazzo products--are classified in Industry 327390, Other Concrete Product
          Manufacturing; and

         Installing, without selling resilient floor tile--are classified in Industry 238330, Flooring Contractors.

23835     Finish Carpentry Contractors      T

          See industry description for 238350 below.

238350 Finish Carpentry Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in finish carpentry work. The work performed may
include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Built-in wood cabinets constructed on site
Molding or trim, wood or plastic, installation
Counter top, residential-type, installation
Paneling installation
Door and window frame construction
Prefabricated kitchen and bath cabinet, residential-type, installation
Garage door, residential-type, installation
Ship joinery contractors
Millwork installation
Window and door, residential-type, of any material, prefabricated, installation

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing skylights--are classified in Industry 238160, Roofing Contractors;
         Framing--are classified in Industry 238130, Framing Contractors; and
         Building custom kitchen and bath cabinets (except free standing) in a shop--are classified in Industry
          337110, Wood Kitchen Cabinet and Countertop Manufacturing.

23839     Other Building Finishing Contractors       T

          See industry description for 238390 below.

238390 Other Building Finishing Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in building finishing trade work (except drywall,
plaster, and insulation work; painting and wall covering work; flooring work; tile and terrazzo work; and finish
carpentry work). The work performed may include new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Bath tub refinishing on site
Fabricating metal cabinets or countertops on site
Closet organizer system installation
Modular furniture system attachment and installation
Concrete coating, glazing, or sealing
Trade show exhibit installation and dismantling
Countertop and cabinet, metal (except residential-type), installation
Waterproofing contractors
Drapery fixture (e.g., hardware, rods, tracks) installation
Window shade and blind installation

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing drywall, plaster, or insulation--are classified in Industry 238310, Drywall and Insulation
          Contractors;

         Installing or removing paint or wall coverings--are classified in Industry 238320, Painting and Wall
          Covering Contractors;
         Installing or repairing wood floors, resilient flooring, and carpet--are classified in Industry 238330,
          Flooring Contractors;
         Setting tile or performing terrazzo work--are classified in Industry 238340, Tile and Terrazzo Contractors;
          and
         Finish carpentry--are classified in Industry 238350, Finish Carpentry Contractors.

2389      Other Specialty Trade Contractors      T



23891     Site Preparation Contractors     T

          See industry description for 238910 below.

238910 Site Preparation Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in site preparation activities, such as excavating and
grading, demolition of buildings and other structures, and septic system installation. Earth moving and land clearing
for all types of sites (e.g., building, nonbuilding, mining) is included in this industry. Establishments primarily
engaged in construction equipment rental with operator (except cranes) are also included.

Illustrative Examples:

Blasting, building demolition
Foundation digging (i.e., excavation)
Concrete breaking and cutting for demolition
Foundation drilling contractors
Cutting new rights of way
Grading construction sites
Demolition, building and structure
Line slashing or cutting (except maintenance)
Dewatering contractors
Septic system contractors
Dirt moving for construction
Trenching (except underwater)
Equipment rental (except crane), construction, with operator
Underground tank (except hazardous) removal
Excavating, earthmoving, or land clearing contractors
Wrecking, building or other structure

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Earth retention or underwater trenching--are classified in Industry 237990, Other Heavy and Civil
          Engineering Construction;
         Crane rental with operator--are classified in Industry 238990, All Other Specialty Trade Contractors;
         Overburden removal as an activity prior to mineral removal from quarries or open pit mines--are classified
          in Sector 21, Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction;
         Drilling oil and gas field water intake wells--are classified in U.S. Industry 213111, Drilling Oil and Gas
          Wells;
         Dismantling tanks in oil fields--are classified in U.S. Industry 213112, Support Activities for Oil and Gas
          Operations;
         Construction equipment rental without an operator--are classified in U.S. Industry 532412, Construction,
          Mining, and Forestry Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing;
         Tree and brush trimming for overhead utility lines--are classified in Industry 561730, Landscaping
          Services; and
         Nuclear power plant decommissioning and environmental remediation work, such as the removal of
          underground steel tanks for hazardous materials--are classified in Industry 562910, Remediation Services.

23899     All Other Specialty Trade Contractors     T

          See industry description for 238990 below.

238990 All Other Specialty Trade Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in specialized trades (except foundation, structure, and
building exterior contractors; building equipment contractors; building finishing contractors; and site preparation
contractors). The specialty trade work performed includes new work, additions, alterations, maintenance, and
repairs.

Illustrative Examples:

Billboard erection
Outdoor swimming pool construction
Cleaning building interiors during and immediately after construction
Paver, brick (e.g., driveway, patio, sidewalk), installation
Crane rental with operator
Paving, residential and commercial driveway and parking lot
Driveway paving or sealing
Sandblasting building exteriors
Fence installation
Scaffold erecting and dismantling
Interlocking brick and block installation
Steeplejack work
Manufactured (mobile) home, set up and tie-down

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Foundation, structure, and building exterior work--are classified in Industry Group 2381, Foundation,
          Structure, and Building Exterior Contractors;
         Installing, repairing, or maintaining building mechanical systems--are classified in Industry Group 2382,
          Building Equipment Contractors;
         Finishing buildings--are classified in Industry Group 2383, Building Finishing Contractors;
         Paving public highways, streets, and roads--are classified in Industry 237310, Highway, Street, and Bridge
          Construction;
         Construction equipment rental with an operator (except cranes) or preparing land for building construction-
          -are classified in Industry 238910, Site Preparation Contractors;
         Construction equipment rental without an operator--are classified in U.S. Industry 532412, Construction,
          Mining, and Forestry Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing;
         Radon testing--are classified in Industry 541380, Testing Laboratories;
         Power washing and other building exterior cleaning (except sandblasting)--are classified in Industry
          561790, Other Services to Buildings and Dwellings; and
         Environmental remediation work, such as asbestos abatement--are classified in Industry 562910,
          Remediation Services.

                                     Sector 31-33--Manufacturing                    T


                                               The Sector as a Whole

  The Manufacturing sector comprises establishments engaged in the mechanical, physical, or chemical
transformation of materials, substances, or components into new products. The assembling of component parts of
manufactured products is considered manufacturing, except in cases where the activity is appropriately classified in
Sector 23, Construction.
  Establishments in the Manufacturing sector are often described as plants, factories, or mills and characteristically
use power-driven machines and materials-handling equipment. However, establishments that transform materials or
substances into new products by hand or in the worker's home and those engaged in selling to the general public
products made on the same premises from which they are sold, such as bakeries, candy stores, and custom tailors,
may also be included in this sector. Manufacturing establishments may process materials or may contract with other
establishments to process their materials for them. Both types of establishments are included in manufacturing.
  The materials, substances, or components transformed by manufacturing establishments are raw materials that are
products of agriculture, forestry, fishing, mining, or quarrying as well as products of other manufacturing
establishments. The materials used may be purchased directly from producers, obtained through customary trade
channels, or secured without recourse to the market by transferring the product from one establishment to another,
under the same ownership.
  The new product of a manufacturing establishment may be finished in the sense that it is ready for utilization or
consumption, or it may be semifinished to become an input for an establishment engaged in further manufacturing.
For example, the product of the alumina refinery is the input used in the primary production of aluminum; primary
aluminum is the input to an aluminum wire drawing plant; and aluminum wire is the input for a fabricated wire
product manufacturing establishment.
  The subsectors in the Manufacturing sector generally reflect distinct production processes related to material
inputs, production equipment, and employee skills. In the machinery area, where assembling is a key activity, parts
and accessories for manufactured products are classified in the industry of the finished manufactured item when they
are made for separate sale. For example, a replacement refrigerator door would be classified with refrigerators and
an attachment for a piece of metal working machinery would be classified with metal working machinery.
However, components, input from other manufacturing establishments, are classified based on the production
function of the component manufacturer. For example, electronic components are classified in Subsector 334,
Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing and stampings are classified in Subsector 332, Fabricated Metal
Product Manufacturing.
  Manufacturing establishments often perform one or more activities that are classified outside the Manufacturing
sector of NAICS. For instance, almost all manufacturing has some captive research and development or
administrative operations, such as accounting, payroll, or management. These captive services are treated the same
as captive manufacturing activities. When the services are provided by separate establishments, they are classified
to the NAICS sector where such services are primary, not in manufacturing.
  The boundaries of manufacturing and the other sectors of the classification system can be somewhat blurry. The
establishments in the manufacturing sector are engaged in the transformation of materials into new products. Their
output is a new product. However, the definition of what constitutes a new product can be somewhat subjective. As
clarification, the following activities are considered manufacturing in NAICS:

Milk bottling and pasteurizing;                             Grinding of lenses to prescription;
Water bottling and processing;                              Wood preserving;
Fresh fish packaging (oyster shucking,                      Electroplating, plating, metal heat
 fish filleting);                                             treating, and polishing for the trade;
Apparel jobbing (assigning of materials                     Lapidary work for the trade;
 to contract factories or shops for                         Fabricating signs and advertising displays;
 fabrication or other contract operations)                  Rebuilding or remanufacturing
 as well as contracting on materials owned by others;         machinery (i.e., automotive parts);
Printing and related activities;                            Ship repair and renovation;
Ready-mixed concrete production;                            Machine shops; and
Leather converting;                                         Tire retreading.

  Conversely, there are activities that are sometimes considered manufacturing, but which for NAICS are classified
in another sector (i.e., not classified as manufacturing). They include:

  1. Logging, classified in Sector 11, Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting, is considered a harvesting
operation;

  2. The beneficiating of ores and other minerals, classified in Sector 21, Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas
Extraction, is considered part of the activity of mining;

  3. The construction of structures and fabricating operations performed at the site of construction by contractors, is
classified in Sector 23, Construction;

  4. Establishments engaged in breaking of bulk and redistribution in smaller lots, including packaging, repackaging,
or bottling products, such as liquors or chemicals; the customized assembly of computers; sorting of scrap; mixing
paints to customer order; and cutting metals to customer order, classified in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade or Sector
44-45, Retail Trade, produce a modified version of the same product, not a new product; and

  5. Publishing and the combined activity of publishing and printing, classified in Sector 51, Information, perform
the transformation of information into a product whereas the value of the product to the consumer lies in the
information content, not in the format in which it is distributed (i.e., the book or software diskette).

311      Food Manufacturing       T



  Industries in the Food Manufacturing subsector transform livestock and agricultural products into products for
intermediate or final consumption. The industry groups are distinguished by the raw materials (generally of animal
or vegetable origin) processed into food products.
  The food products manufactured in these establishments are typically sold to wholesalers or retailers for
distribution to consumers, but establishments primarily engaged in retailing bakery and candy products made on the
premises not for immediate consumption are included.
  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing beverages are classified in Subsector 312, Beverage and
Tobacco Product Manufacturing.

3111     Animal Food Manufacturing         T



31111    Animal Food Manufacturing         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing food and feed for animals from
ingredients, such as grains, oilseed mill products, and meat products.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Slaughtering animals for feed--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and Processing; and
      Manufacturing vitamins and minerals for animals--are classified in Industry 32541, Pharmaceutical and
         Medicine Manufacturing.

311111 Dog and Cat Food Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dog and cat food from
ingredients, such as grains, oilseed mill products, and meat products.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing food for animals (except dog and cat)--are classified in U.S. Industry 311119, Other Animal
         Food Manufacturing;
      Slaughtering animals for feed--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and Processing; and

     Manufacturing vitamins and minerals for dogs and cats--are classified in Industry 32541, Pharmaceutical
         and Medicine Manufacturing.

311119 Other Animal Food Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing animal food (except dog and cat)
from ingredients, such as grains, oilseed mill products, and meat products.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing dog and cat foods--are classified in U.S. Industry 311111, Dog and Cat Food
         Manufacturing;
     Slaughtering animals for feed--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and Processing; and
     Manufacturing vitamins and minerals for animals--are classified in Industry 32541, Pharmaceutical and
         Medicine Manufacturing.

3112     Grain and Oilseed Milling    T



31121    Flour Milling and Malt Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) milling flour or
meal from grains or vegetables; (2) preparing flour mixes or doughs from flour milled in the same establishment; (3)
milling, cleaning, and polishing rice; and (4) manufacturing malt from barley, rye, or other grains.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Preparing breakfast cereals from flour milled in the same establishment--are classified in Industry 31123,
         Breakfast Cereal Manufacturing;
     Crushing soybeans or wet milling corn and vegetables--are classified in Industry 31122, Starch and
         Vegetable Fats and Oils Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing prepared flour mixes or doughs from flour ground elsewhere--are classified in Industry
         31182, Cookie, Cracker, and Pasta Manufacturing;
     Brewing malt beverages--are classified in Industry 31212, Breweries;
     Mixing purchased dried and dehydrated ingredients with purchased rice--are classified in Industry 31199,
         All Other Food Manufacturing;
     Drying and/or dehydrating ingredients and packaging them with purchased rice--are classified in Industry
         31142, Fruit and Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying; and
     Manufacturing malt extract and syrups--are classified in Industry 31194, Seasoning and Dressing
         Manufacturing.

311211 Flour Milling

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) milling flour or meal from grains (except
rice) or vegetables and/or (2) milling flour and preparing flour mixes or doughs.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Preparing breakfast cereals from flour milled in the same establishment--are classified in Industry 311230,
         Breakfast Cereal Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing prepared flour mixes or doughs from flour ground elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
         311824, Dry Pasta, Dough, and Flour Mixes Manufacturing from Purchased Flour;
     Milling rice or cleaning and polishing rice--are classified in U.S. Industry 311212, Rice Milling;
     Wet milling corn and vegetables--are classified in U.S. Industry 311221, Wet Corn Milling; and
     Crushing soybean and extracting soybean oil--are classified in U.S. Industry 311224, Soybean and Other
         Oilseed Processing.

311212 Rice Milling

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) milling rice; (2)
cleaning and polishing rice; or (3) milling, cleaning, and polishing rice. The establishments in this industry may
package the rice they mill with other ingredients.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Drying and/or dehydrating ingredients and packaging them with purchased rice--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 311423, Dried and Dehydrated Food Manufacturing; and
     Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients with purchased rice--are classified in U.S. Industry
         311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing.

311213 Malt Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing malt from barley, rye, or other
grains.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Brewing malt beverages--are classified in Industry 312120, Breweries; and
     Manufacturing malt extract and syrups--are classified in U.S. Industry 311942, Spice and Extract
         Manufacturing.

31122    Starch and Vegetable Fats and Oils Manufacturing        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) wet milling corn
and vegetables; (2) crushing oilseeds and tree nuts; (3) refining and/or blending vegetable oils; (4) manufacturing
shortening and margarine; and (5) blending purchased animal fats with vegetable fats.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing table syrups from corn syrup and starch base dessert powders--are classified in Industry
         31199, All Other Food Manufacturing;
     Reducing maple sap to maple syrup--are classified in Industry 11199, All Other Crop Farming;
     Milling flour or meal from grains and vegetables--are classified in Industry 31121, Flour Milling and Malt
         Manufacturing;
     Wet milling corn to produce nonpotable ethyl alcohol--are classified in Industry 32519, Other Basic
         Organic Chemical Manufacturing;
     Rendering or refining animal fats and oils--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and
         Processing; and
     Manufacturing laundry starches--are classified in Industry 32561, Soap and Cleaning Compound
         Manufacturing.

311221 Wet Corn Milling

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in wet milling corn and other vegetables (except to
make ethyl alcohol). Examples of products made in these establishments are corn sweeteners, such as glucose,
dextrose, and fructose; corn oil; and starches (except laundry).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Refining and/or blending corn oil from purchased oils--are classified in U.S. Industry 311225, Fats and Oils
         Refining and Blending;

      Manufacturing sweetening syrups from corn syrup and starch base dessert powders--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing;
      Reducing maple sap to maple syrup--are classified in U.S. Industry 111998, All Other Miscellaneous Crop
         Farming;
      Milling (except wet milling) corn--are classified in U.S. Industry 311211, Flour Milling;
      Wet milling corn to produce nonpotable ethyl alcohol--are classified in U.S. Industry 325193, Ethyl
         Alcohol Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing laundry starches--are classified in U.S. Industry 325612, Polish and Other Sanitation Good
         Manufacturing.

311224 Soybean and Other Oilseed Processing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in crushing oilseeds and tree nuts, such as
soybeans, cottonseeds, linseeds, peanuts, and sunflower seeds. Examples of products produced in these
establishments are oilseed oils, cakes, meals, and protein isolates and concentrates.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Wet milling corn and other vegetables--are classified in U.S. Industry 311221, Wet Corn Milling; and
      Refining and/or blending vegetable, oilseed, and tree nut oils from purchased oils--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 311225, Fats and Oils Refining and Blending.

311225 Fats and Oils Refining and Blending

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
shortening and margarine from purchased fats and oils; (2) refining and/or blending vegetable, oilseed, and tree nut
oils from purchased oils; and (3) blending purchased animal fats with purchased vegetable fats.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Refining and/or blending corn oil made by wet corn milling--are classified in U.S. Industry 311221, Wet
         Corn Milling;
      Refining and/or blending oilseeds and tree nuts in crushing mills--are classified in U.S. Industry 311224,
         Soybean and Other Oilseed Processing; and
      Rendering or refining animal fats and oils--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and
         Processing.

31123    Breakfast Cereal Manufacturing     T

         See industry description for 311230 below.

311230 Breakfast Cereal Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing breakfast cereal foods.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing nonchocolate-coated granola bars and other types of breakfast bars--are classified in
         Industry 311340, Nonchocolate Confectionery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing chocolate-coated granola bars from purchased chocolate--are classified in U.S. Industry
         311352, Confectionery Manufacturing from Purchased Chocolate;
      Manufacturing chocolate-coated granola bars from cacao beans--are classified in U.S. Industry 311351,
         Chocolate and Confectionery Manufacturing from Cacao Beans; and
      Manufacturing coffee substitutes from grain--are classified in Industry 311920, Coffee and Tea
         Manufacturing.

3113     Sugar and Confectionery Product Manufacturing         T



 This industry group comprises (1) establishments that process agricultural inputs, such as sugarcane, beet, and
cacao, to give rise to a new product (sugar or chocolate), and (2) those that begin with sugar and chocolate and
process these further.

31131    Sugar Manufacturing    T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing raw sugar, liquid sugar, and refined
sugar from sugarcane, raw cane sugar and sugar beets.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing corn sweeteners by wet milling corn--are classified in Industry 31122, Starch and Vegetable
         Fats and Oils Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing table syrups from corn syrup and starch base dessert powders--are classified in Industry
         31199, All Other Food Manufacturing;
     Reducing maple sap to maple syrup--are classified in Industry 11199, All Other Crop Farming; and
     Manufacturing synthetic sweeteners (i.e., sweetening agents), such as saccharin and sugar substitutes (i.e.,
         synthetic sweetener blended with other ingredients)--are classified in Subsector 325, Chemical
         Manufacturing.

311313 Beet Sugar Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing refined beet sugar from sugar
beets.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing raw cane sugar and/or refined cane sugar--are classified in U.S. Industry 311314, Cane
         Sugar Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing corn sweeteners by wet milling corn--are classified in U.S. Industry 311221, Wet Corn
         Milling;
     Manufacturing table syrups from corn syrup--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other
         Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing;
     Reducing maple sap to maple syrup--are classified in U.S. Industry 111998, All Other Miscellaneous Crop
         Farming; and
     Manufacturing synthetic sweeteners (i.e., sweetening agents), such as saccharin and sugar substitutes (i.e.,
         synthetic sweetener blended with other ingredients)--are classified in Subsector 325, Chemical
         Manufacturing.

311314 Cane Sugar Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) processing sugarcane and/or (2) refining
cane sugar from raw cane sugar.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing beet sugar--are classified in U.S. Industry 311313, Beet Sugar Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing corn sweeteners by wet milling corn--are classified in U.S. Industry 311221, Wet Corn
         Milling;
     Reducing maple sap to maple syrup--are classified in U.S. Industry 111998, All Other Miscellaneous Crop
         Farming;
     Manufacturing table syrups from corn syrup--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other
         Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing; and

      Manufacturing synthetic sweeteners (i.e., sweetening agents), such as saccharin and sugar substitutes (i.e.,
         synthetic sweetener blended with other ingredients)--are classified in Subsector 325, Chemical
         Manufacturing.

31134    Nonchocolate Confectionery Manufacturing       T

         See industry description for 311340 below.

311340 Nonchocolate Confectionery Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonchocolate confectioneries.
Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in retailing nonchocolate confectionery products not
for immediate consumption made on the premises.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing chocolate confectioneries from cacao beans--are classified in U.S. Industry 311351,
         Chocolate and Confectionery Manufacturing from Cacao Beans;
      Manufacturing chocolate confectioneries from chocolate made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
         311352, Confectionery Manufacturing from Purchased Chocolate;
      Retailing confectioneries not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
         445292, Confectionery and Nut Stores;
      Preparing and selling confectioneries for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S. Industry 722515,
         Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars; and
      Roasting, salting, drying, cooking, or canning nuts and seeds--are classified in U.S. Industry 311911,
         Roasted Nuts and Peanut Butter Manufacturing.

31135    Chocolate and Confectionery Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing chocolate and chocolate
confectioneries from cacao beans, or (2) manufacturing chocolate confectioneries from chocolate produced
elsewhere. Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in retailing chocolate confectionery
products not for immediate consumption made on the premises from chocolate made elsewhere.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing, not for immediate consumption, nonchocolate confectioneries--are classified in Industry
         31134, Nonchocolate Confectionery Manufacturing;
      Retailing confectioneries not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in Industry 44529,
         Other Specialty Food Stores; and
      Preparing and selling confectioneries for immediate consumption--are classified in Industry 72251,
         Restaurants and Other Eating Places.

311351 Chocolate and Confectionery Manufacturing from Cacao Beans

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in shelling, roasting, and grinding cacao beans and
making chocolate cacao products and chocolate confectioneries.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing, not for immediate consumption, chocolate confectioneries from chocolate made elsewhere-
         -are classified in U.S. Industry 311352, Confectionery Manufacturing from Purchased Chocolate;
      Manufacturing, not for immediate consumption, nonchocolate candies--are classified in Industry 311340,
         Nonchocolate Confectionery Manufacturing;
      Preparing and selling confectioneries for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S. Industry 722515,
         Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars; and

     Retailing confectioneries not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
         445292, Confectionery and Nut Stores.

311352 Confectionery Manufacturing from Purchased Chocolate

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing chocolate confectioneries from
chocolate produced elsewhere. Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in retailing chocolate
confectionery products not for immediate consumption made on the premises from chocolate made elsewhere.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing chocolate confectioneries from cacao beans--are classified in U.S. Industry 311351,
         Chocolate and Confectionery Manufacturing from Cacao Beans;
     Manufacturing, not for immediate consumption, nonchocolate confectioneries--are classified in Industry
         311340, Nonchocolate Confectionery Manufacturing;
     Retailing confectioneries not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
         445292, Confectionery and Nut Stores; and
     Preparing and selling confectioneries for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S. Industry 722515,
         Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars.

3114     Fruit and Vegetable Preserving and Specialty Food Manufacturing         T



 This industry group includes (1) establishments that freeze food and (2) those that use preservation processes, such
as pickling, canning, and dehydrating. Both types begin their production process with inputs of vegetable or animal
origin.

31141    Frozen Food Manufacturing       T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing frozen fruit, frozen juices, frozen
vegetables, and frozen specialty foods (except seafood), such as frozen dinners, entrees, and side dishes; frozen
pizza; frozen whipped toppings; and frozen waffles, pancakes, and french toast.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing frozen dairy specialties--are classified in Industry 31152, Ice Cream and Frozen Dessert
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing frozen bakery products--are classified in Industry 31181, Bread and Bakery Product
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing frozen seafood products--are classified in Industry 31171, Seafood Product Preparation and
         Packaging; and
     Manufacturing frozen meat products--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and
         Processing.

311411 Frozen Fruit, Juice, and Vegetable Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing frozen fruits; frozen vegetables;
and frozen fruit juices, ades, drinks, cocktail mixes and concentrates.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing frozen specialty foods are classified in U.S. Industry 311412,
Frozen Specialty Food Manufacturing.

311412 Frozen Specialty Food Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing frozen specialty foods (except
seafood), such as frozen dinners, entrees, and side dishes; frozen pizza; frozen whipped topping; and frozen waffles,
pancakes, and french toast.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing frozen dairy specialties--are classified in Industry 311520, Ice Cream and Frozen Dessert
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing frozen bakery products--are classified in U.S. Industry 311813, Frozen Cakes, Pies, and
          Other Pastries Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing frozen fruits, frozen fruit juices, and frozen vegetables--are classified in U.S. Industry
          311411, Frozen Fruit, Juice, and Vegetable Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing frozen meat products--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and
          Processing; and
      Manufacturing frozen seafood products--are classified in Industry 311710, Seafood Product Preparation
          and Packaging.

31142     Fruit and Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing canned, pickled, and dried fruits,
vegetables, and specialty foods. Establishments in this industry may package the dried or dehydrated ingredients
they make with other purchased ingredients. Examples of products made by these establishments are canned juices;
canned baby foods; canned soups (except seafood); canned dry beans; canned tomato-based sauces, such as catsup,
salsa, chili, spaghetti, barbeque, and tomato paste, pickles, relishes, jams and jellies, dried soup mixes and bullions,
and sauerkraut.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing canned dairy products--are classified in Industry 31151, Dairy Product (except Frozen)
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing canned seafood soups and seafood products--are classified in Industry 31171, Seafood
          Product Preparation and Packaging;
      Manufacturing canned meat products--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and
          Processing;
      Milling rice and packaging it with other ingredients or manufacturing vegetable flours and meals--are
          classified in Industry 31121, Flour Milling and Malt Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing dry pasta and packaging it with other ingredients--are classified in Industry 31182, Cookie,
          Cracker, and Pasta Manufacturing;
      Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated potatoes, rice, and pasta and packaging them with other
          purchased ingredients; mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients for soup mixes and bouillon;
          and manufacturing canned puddings--are classified in Industry 31199, All Other Food Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing dry salad dressing and dry sauce mixes--are classified in Industry 31194, Seasoning and
          Dressing Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing canned fruit and vegetable drinks, cocktails, and ades--are classified in Industry 31211, Soft
          Drink and Ice Manufacturing.

311421 Fruit and Vegetable Canning

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing canned, pickled, and brined
fruits and vegetables. Examples of products made in these establishments are canned juices; canned jams and
jellies; canned tomato-based sauces, such as catsup, salsa, chili, spaghetti, barbeque, and tomato paste; pickles,
relishes, and sauerkraut.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing canned baby foods, canned soups (except seafood), and canned specialty foods (except
         seafood)--are classified in U.S. Industry 311422, Specialty Canning;
     Manufacturing canned seafood soups and canned seafood products--are classified in Industry 311710,
         Seafood Product Preparation and Packaging;
     Manufacturing canned meat products--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and
         Processing; and
     Manufacturing canned fruit and vegetable drinks, cocktails, and ades--are classified in U.S. Industry
         312111, Soft Drink Manufacturing.

311422 Specialty Canning

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing canned specialty foods.
Examples of products made in these establishments are canned baby food, canned baked beans, canned soups
(except seafood), canned spaghetti, and other canned nationality foods.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing canned dairy products--are classified in U.S. Industry 311514, Dry, Condensed, and
         Evaporated Dairy Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing canned fruits, canned vegetables, and canned juices--are classified in U.S. Industry 311421,
         Fruit and Vegetable Canning;
     Manufacturing canned seafood soups and canned seafood products--are classified in Industry 311710,
         Seafood Product Preparation and Packaging;
     Manufacturing canned meat products--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and
         Processing; and
     Manufacturing canned puddings--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food
         Manufacturing.

311423 Dried and Dehydrated Food Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) drying (including freeze-dried) and/or
dehydrating fruits, vegetables, and soup mixes and bouillon and/or (2) drying and/or dehydrating ingredients and
packaging them with other purchased ingredients, such as rice and dry pasta.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Milling rice and packaging it with other ingredients--are classified in U.S. Industry 311212, Rice Milling;
     Manufacturing dry pasta and packaging it with other ingredients--are classified in U.S. Industry 311824,
         Dry Pasta, Dough, and Flour Mixes Manufacturing from Purchased Flour;
     Manufacturing vegetable flours and meals--are classified in U.S. Industry 311211, Flour Milling;
     Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated potatoes, rice, and dry pasta, and packaging them with other
         purchased ingredients, and mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients for soup mixes and
         bouillon--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing dry salad dressing and dry sauce mixes--are classified in U.S. Industry 311942, Spice and
         Extract Manufacturing.

3115     Dairy Product Manufacturing       T



 This industry group comprises establishments that manufacture dairy products from raw milk, processed milk, and
dairy substitutes.

31151    Dairy Product (except Frozen) Manufacturing       T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
dairy products (except frozen) from raw milk and/or processed milk products; (2) manufacturing dairy substitutes

(except frozen) from soybeans and other nondairy substances; and (3) manufacturing dry, condensed, concentrated,
and evaporated dairy and dairy substitute products.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing cheese-based salad dressings--are classified in Industry 31194, Seasoning and Dressing
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing margarine or margarine-butter blends--are classified in Industry 31122, Starch and
         Vegetable Fats and Oils Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing frozen whipped toppings--are classified in Industry 31141, Frozen Food Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing ice cream, frozen yogurt, and other frozen dairy desserts--are classified in Industry 31152,
         Ice Cream and Frozen Dessert Manufacturing.

311511 Fluid Milk Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing processed milk products,
such as pasteurized milk or cream and sour cream and/or (2) manufacturing fluid milk dairy substitutes from
soybeans and other nondairy substances.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing dry mix whipped toppings, canned milk, and ultra high temperature milk--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 311514, Dry, Condensed, and Evaporated Dairy Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing frozen whipped toppings--are classified in U.S. Industry 311412, Frozen Specialty Food
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing ice cream and frozen yogurt and other frozen desserts--are classified in Industry 311520, Ice
         Cream and Frozen Dessert Manufacturing.

311512 Creamery Butter Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing creamery butter from milk
and/or processed milk products.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing margarine or margarine-butter blends are classified in U.S.
Industry 311225, Fats and Oils Refining and Blending.

311513 Cheese Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing cheese products (except
cottage cheese) from raw milk and/or processed milk products and/or (2) manufacturing cheese substitutes from
soybean and other nondairy substances.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing cheese-based salad dressings--are classified in U.S. Industry 311941, Mayonnaise,
         Dressing, and Other Prepared Sauce Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing cottage cheese--are classified in U.S. Industry 311511, Fluid Milk Manufacturing.

311514 Dry, Condensed, and Evaporated Dairy Product Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dry, condensed, and evaporated
milk and dairy substitute products.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing fluid milk products--are classified in U.S. Industry 311511, Fluid Milk Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing creamery butter--are classified in U.S. Industry 311512, Creamery Butter Manufacturing;
          and
      Manufacturing cheese products--are classified in U.S. Industry 311513, Cheese Manufacturing.

31152     Ice Cream and Frozen Dessert Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 311520 below.

311520 Ice Cream and Frozen Dessert Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing ice cream, frozen yogurts, frozen ices,
sherbets, frozen tofu, and other frozen desserts (except bakery products).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing frozen bakery products--are classified in U.S. Industry 311813, Frozen Cakes, Pies, and
          Other Pastries Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing ice cream and ice milk mixes--are classified in U.S. Industry 311514, Dry, Condensed, and
          Evaporated Dairy Product Manufacturing.

3116      Animal Slaughtering and Processing     T



31161     Animal Slaughtering and Processing     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) slaughtering
animals; (2) preparing processed meats and meat byproducts; and (3) rendering and/or refining animal fat, bones,
and meat scraps. This industry includes establishments primarily engaged in assembly cutting and packing of meats
(i.e., boxed meats) from purchased carcasses.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing canned meat for baby food--are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and Vegetable Canning,
          Pickling, and Drying;
      Manufacturing meat-based animal feeds from carcasses--are classified in Industry 31111, Animal Food
          Manufacturing;
      Blending purchased animal fats with vegetable fats--are classified in Industry 31122, Starch and Vegetable
          Fats and Oils Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing canned and frozen specialty foods containing meat, such as nationality foods (e.g.,
          enchiladas, pizza, egg rolls) and frozen dinners--are classified in Industry Group 3114, Fruit and Vegetable
          Preserving and Specialty Food Manufacturing;
      Drying, freezing, or breaking eggs--are classified in Industry 31199, All Other Food Manufacturing; and
      Cutting meat (except boxed meat)--are classified in Industry 42447, Meat and Meat Product Merchant
          Wholesalers.

311611 Animal (except Poultry) Slaughtering

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in slaughtering animals (except poultry and small
game). Establishments that slaughter and prepare meats are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Processing meat and meat byproducts (except poultry and small game) from purchased meats--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 311612, Meat Processed from Carcasses;

     Slaughtering and/or processing poultry and small game--are classified in U.S. Industry 311615, Poultry
         Processing;
     Rendering lard and other animal fats and oils, animal fat, bones, and meat scraps--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 311613, Rendering and Meat Byproduct Processing; and
     Manufacturing canned and frozen specialty foods containing meat, such as nationality foods (e.g.,
         enchiladas, egg rolls, pizza) and frozen dinners--are classified in Industry Group 3114, Fruit and Vegetable
         Preserving and Specialty Food Manufacturing.

311612 Meat Processed from Carcasses

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in processing or preserving meat and meat
byproducts (except poultry and small game) from purchased meats. This industry includes establishments primarily
engaged in assembly cutting and packing of meats (i.e., boxed meats) from purchased meats.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Slaughtering animals (except poultry and small game)--are classified in U.S. Industry 311611, Animal
         (except Poultry) Slaughtering;
     Slaughtering poultry and small game--are classified in U.S. Industry 311615, Poultry Processing;
     Rendering animal fat, bones, and meat scraps--are classified in U.S. Industry 311613, Rendering and Meat
         Byproduct Processing;
     Manufacturing canned meats for baby food--are classified in U.S. Industry 311422, Specialty Canning;
     Manufacturing meat-based animal feeds from carcasses--are classified in Industry 31111, Animal Food
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing canned and frozen specialty foods containing meat, such as nationality foods (e.g.,
         enchiladas, egg rolls, pizza) and frozen dinners--are classified in Industry Group 3114, Fruit and Vegetable
         Preserving and Specialty Food Manufacturing; and
     Cutting meat (except boxed meat)--are classified in Industry 424470, Meat and Meat Product Merchant
         Wholesalers.

311613 Rendering and Meat Byproduct Processing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in rendering animal fat, bones, and meat scraps.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in blending purchased animal fats with vegetable fats are classified in U.S.
Industry 311225, Fats and Oils Refining and Blending.

311615 Poultry Processing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) slaughtering poultry and small game and/or
(2) preparing processed poultry and small game meat and meat byproducts.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Slaughtering animals (except poultry and small game) and/or preparing meats--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 311611, Animal (except Poultry) Slaughtering;
     Preparing meat and meat byproducts (except poultry and small game) from purchased meats--are classified
         in U.S. Industry 311612, Meat Processed from Carcasses;
     Rendering animal fat, bones, and meat scraps--are classified in U.S. Industry 311613, Rendering and Meat
         Byproduct Processing;
     Canning poultry and small game for baby food--are classified in U.S. Industry 311422, Specialty Canning;
     Producing meat-based animal feeds from carcasses--are classified in Industry 31111, Animal Food
         Manufacturing;

     Manufacturing canned and frozen meat products, such as nationality foods (e.g., enchiladas, egg rolls,
         pizza) and frozen dinners--are classified in Industry Group 3114, Fruit and Vegetable Preserving and
         Specialty Food Manufacturing; and
     Drying, freezing, and breaking eggs--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food
         Manufacturing.

3117     Seafood Product Preparation and Packaging       T



31171    Seafood Product Preparation and Packaging       T

         See industry description for 311710 below.

311710 Seafood Product Preparation and Packaging

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) canning seafood
(including soup); (2) smoking, salting, and drying seafood; (3) eviscerating fresh fish by removing heads, fins,
scales, bones, and entrails; (4) shucking and packing fresh shellfish; (5) processing marine fats and oils; and (6)
freezing seafood. Establishments known as "floating factory ships" that are engaged in the gathering and processing
of seafood into canned seafood products are included in this industry.

3118     Bakeries and Tortilla Manufacturing     T



31181    Bread and Bakery Product Manufacturing         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fresh and frozen bread and other
bakery products.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing cookies and crackers--are classified in Industry 31182, Cookie, Cracker, and Pasta
         Manufacturing;
     Preparing and selling bakery products (e.g., cookies, pretzels) for immediate consumption--are classified in
         Industry 72251, Restaurants and Other Eating Places;
     Retailing bakery products not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in Industry
         44529, Other Specialty Food Stores; and
     Manufacturing pretzels (except soft)--are classified in Industry 31191, Snack Food Manufacturing.

311811 Retail Bakeries

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing bread and other bakery products not for
immediate consumption made on the premises from flour, not from prepared dough.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing bakery products not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
         445291, Baked Goods Stores;
     Preparing and selling bakery products (e.g., cookies, pretzels) for immediate consumption--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars;
     Manufacturing fresh or frozen breads and other fresh bakery (except cookies and crackers) products--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 311812, Commercial Bakeries; and
     Manufacturing cookies and crackers--are classified in U.S. Industry 311821, Cookie and Cracker
         Manufacturing.

311812 Commercial Bakeries

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fresh and frozen bread and
bread-type rolls and other fresh bakery (except cookies and crackers) products.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing bread and other bakery products not for immediate consumption made on the premises from
         flour, not from prepared dough--are classified in U.S. Industry 311811, Retail Bakeries;
     Manufacturing frozen bakery products (except bread)--are classified in U.S. Industry 311813, Frozen
         Cakes, Pies, and Other Pastries Manufacturing;
     Preparing and selling bakery products (e.g., cookies, pretzels) for immediate consumption--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars;
     Retailing bakery products not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
         445291, Baked Goods Stores;
     Manufacturing cookies and crackers--are classified in U.S. Industry 311821, Cookie and Cracker
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing pretzels (except soft)--are classified in U.S. Industry 311919, Other Snack Food
         Manufacturing.

311813 Frozen Cakes, Pies, and Other Pastries Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing frozen bakery products (except
bread), such as cakes, pies, and doughnuts.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing frozen breads--are classified in U.S. Industry 311812, Commercial Bakeries;
     Retailing bakery products not for immediate consumption made on the premises from flour, not from
         prepared dough--are classified in U.S. Industry 311811, Retail Bakeries;
     Preparing and selling bakery products (e.g., cookies, pretzels) for immediate consumption--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars;
     Manufacturing cookies and crackers--are classified in U.S. Industry 311821, Cookie and Cracker
         Manufacturing; and
     Retailing bakery products not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
         445291, Baked Goods Stores.

31182    Cookie, Cracker, and Pasta Manufacturing      T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) manufacturing cookies and
crackers; (2) preparing flour and dough mixes and dough from flour ground elsewhere; and (3) manufacturing dry
pasta. The establishments in this industry may package the dry pasta they manufacture with other ingredients.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Preparing and selling bakery products (e.g., cookies, pretzels) for immediate consumption--are classified in
         Industry 72251, Restaurants and Other Eating Places;
     Retailing bakery products not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in Industry
         44529, Other Specialty Food Stores;
     Manufacturing bakery products (e.g., bread, cookies, pies)--are classified in Industry 31181, Bread and
         Bakery Product Manufacturing;
     Milling flour and preparing flour mixes or doughs--are classified in Industry 31121, Flour Milling and Malt
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing canned pasta specialties--are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and Vegetable Canning,
         Pickling, and Drying;
     Manufacturing fresh pasta--are classified in Industry 31199, All Other Food Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing pretzels (except soft)--are classified in Industry 31191, Snack Food Manufacturing;

    Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients with purchased dry pasta--are classified in Industry
        31199, All Other Food Manufacturing; and
    Drying and/or dehydrating ingredients and packaging them with purchased dry pasta--are classified in
        Industry 31142, Fruit and Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying.

311821 Cookie and Cracker Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing cookies, crackers, and other
products, such as ice cream cones.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

    Preparing and selling bakery products (e.g., cookies, pretzels) for immediate consumption--are classified in
        U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars;
    Retailing bakery products not for immediate consumption made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry
        445291, Baked Goods Stores;
    Manufacturing bakery products (e.g., breads, cookies, pies)--are classified in Industry 31181, Bread and
        Bakery Product Manufacturing; and
    Manufacturing pretzels (except soft)--are classified in U.S. Industry 311919, Other Snack Food
        Manufacturing.

311824 Dry Pasta, Dough, and Flour Mixes Manufacturing from Purchased Flour

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing dry pasta and/or (2)
manufacturing prepared flour mixes or dough from flour ground elsewhere. The establishments in this industry may
package the dry pasta they manufacture with other ingredients.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

    Milling flour and preparing flour mixes or doughs--are classified in U.S. Industry 311211, Flour Milling;
    Manufacturing fresh pasta--are classified in U.S. Industry 311991, Perishable Prepared Food
        Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing pasta specialties--are classified in Industry Group 3114, Fruit and Vegetable Preserving and
        Specialty Food Manufacturing;
    Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients with purchased dry pasta--are classified in U.S.
        Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing; and
    Drying and/or dehydrating ingredients packaged with purchased dry pasta--are classified in U.S. Industry
        311423, Dried and Dehydrated Food Manufacturing.

31183   Tortilla Manufacturing   T

        See industry description for 311830 below.

311830 Tortilla Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing tortillas.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

    Manufacturing canned nationality foods using tortillas--are classified in U.S. Industry 311422, Specialty
        Canning;
    Manufacturing frozen nationality foods using tortillas--are classified in U.S. Industry 311412, Frozen
        Specialty Food Manufacturing; and
    Manufacturing tortilla chips--are classified in U.S. Industry 311919, Other Snack Food Manufacturing.

3119      Other Food Manufacturing    T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing food (except animal food; grain
and oilseed milling; sugar and confectionery products; preserved fruit, vegetable, and specialty foods; dairy
products; meat products; seafood products; and bakeries and tortillas). The industry group includes industries with
different production processes, such as snack food manufacturing; coffee and tea manufacturing; concentrate, syrup,
condiment, and spice manufacturing; and, in general, an entire range of other miscellaneous food product
manufacturing.

31191     Snack Food Manufacturing    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) salting, roasting,
drying, cooking, or canning nuts; (2) processing grains or seeds into snacks; (3) manufacturing peanut butter; and (4)
manufacturing potato chips, corn chips, popped popcorn, pretzels (except soft), pork rinds, and similar snacks.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing crackers--are classified in Industry 31182, Cookie, Cracker, and Pasta Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing unpopped popcorn--are classified in Industry 31199, All Other Food Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing chocolate or candy-coated nuts and candy-covered popcorn--are classified in Industry
          Group 3113, Sugar and Confectionery Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing soft pretzels--are classified in Industry 31181, Bread and Bakery Product Manufacturing.

311911 Roasted Nuts and Peanut Butter Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) salting,
roasting, drying, cooking, or canning nuts; (2) processing grains or seeds into snacks; and (3) manufacturing peanut
butter.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing chocolate or candy-coated nuts and candy-covered popcorn
are classified in Industry Group 3113, Sugar and Confectionery Product Manufacturing.

311919 Other Snack Food Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing snack foods (except roasted nuts
and peanut butter).

Illustrative Examples:

Corn chips and related corn snacks manufacturing
Popped popcorn (except candy-covered) manufacturing
Pork rinds manufacturing
Potato chips manufacturing
Pretzels (except soft) manufacturing
Tortilla chips manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing cookies and crackers--are classified in U.S. Industry 311821, Cookie and Cracker
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing candy covered popcorn and nonchocolate granola bars--are classified in Industry 311340,
          Nonchocolate Confectionery Manufacturing;

      Salting, roasting, drying, cooking, or canning nuts and seeds--are classified in U.S. Industry 311911,
          Roasted Nuts and Peanut Butter Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing unpopped popcorn--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing soft pretzels--are classified in U.S. Industry 311812, Commercial Bakeries.

31192     Coffee and Tea Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 311920 below.

311920 Coffee and Tea Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) roasting coffee; (2)
manufacturing coffee and tea concentrates (including instant and freeze-dried); (3) blending tea; (4) manufacturing
herbal tea; and (5) manufacturing coffee extracts, flavorings, and syrups.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in bottling and canning iced tea are classified in U.S. Industry 312111, Soft
Drink Manufacturing.

31193     Flavoring Syrup and Concentrate Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 311930 below.

311930 Flavoring Syrup and Concentrate Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing flavoring syrup drink concentrates
and related products for soda fountain use or for the manufacture of soft drinks.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing chocolate syrup--are classified in U.S. Industry 311351, Chocolate and Confectionery
          Manufacturing from Cacao Beans;
      Manufacturing flavoring extracts (except coffee and meat) and natural food colorings--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 311942, Spice and Extract Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coffee extracts--are classified in Industry 311920, Coffee and Tea Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing meat extracts--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and Processing;
      Manufacturing powdered drink mixes (except coffee, tea, chocolate, or milk-based) and table syrup from
          corn syrup--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing;
      Reducing maple sap to maple syrup--are classified in U.S. Industry 111998, All Other Miscellaneous Crop
          Farming; and
      Manufacturing natural nonfood colorings--are classified in U.S. Industry 325199, All Other Basic Organic
          Chemical Manufacturing.

31194     Seasoning and Dressing Manufacturing       T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
dressings and sauces, such as mayonnaise, salad dressing, vinegar, mustard, horseradish, soy sauce, tarter sauce,
Worcestershire sauce, and other prepared sauces (except tomato-based and gravies); (2) manufacturing spices, table
salt, seasoning, and flavoring extracts (except coffee and meat), and natural food colorings; and (3) manufacturing
dry mix food preparations, such as salad dressing mixes, gravy and sauce mixes, frosting mixes, and other dry mix
preparations.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing catsup and other tomato-based sauces--are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and Vegetable
         Canning, Pickling, and Drying;
     Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated potato, rice, and pasta and packaging them with other purchased
         ingredients, and manufacturing prepared frosting--are classified in Industry 31199, All Other Food
         Manufacturing;
     Drying and/or dehydrating ingredients for dry soup mixes and bouillon--are classified in Industry 31142,
         Fruit and Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying;
     Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients for dry soup mixes and bouillon--are classified in
         Industry 31199, All Other Food Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing industrial salts--are classified in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product and
         Preparation Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing flavoring syrups (except coffee-based syrups)--are classified in Industry 31193, Flavoring
         Syrup and Concentrate Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing synthetic food colorings--are classified in Industry 32513, Synthetic Dye and Pigment
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing natural organic colorings for nonfood uses--are classified in Industry 32519, Other Basic
         Organic Chemical Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing coffee extracts--are classified in Industry 31192, Coffee and Tea Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing meat extracts--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and Processing; and
     Manufacturing gravies--are classified in Industry 31199, All Other Food Manufacturing.

311941 Mayonnaise, Dressing, and Other Prepared Sauce Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing mayonnaise, salad dressing,
vinegar, mustard, horseradish, soy sauce, tarter sauce, Worcestershire sauce, and other prepared sauces (except
tomato-based and gravy).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing catsup and similar tomato-based sauces--are classified in U.S. Industry 311421, Fruit and
         Vegetable Canning;
     Manufacturing dry salad dressing and dry sauce mixes--are classified in U.S. Industry 311942, Spice and
         Extract Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing gravies--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food
         Manufacturing.

311942 Spice and Extract Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing spices, table salt, seasonings,
flavoring extracts (except coffee and meat), and natural food colorings and/or (2) manufacturing dry mix food
preparations, such as salad dressing mixes, gravy and sauce mixes, frosting mixes, and other dry mix preparations.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing catsup and other tomato-based sauces--are classified in U.S. Industry 311421, Fruit and
         Vegetable Canning;
     Manufacturing mayonnaise, dressings, and prepared nontomato-based sauces--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 311941, Mayonnaise, Dressing, and Other Prepared Sauce Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing industrial salts--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other Miscellaneous Chemical
         Product and Preparation Manufacturing;
     Drying and/or dehydrating ingredients for dry soup mixes and bouillon--are classified in U.S. Industry
         311423, Dried and Dehydrated Food Manufacturing;
     Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients for dry soup mixes and bouillon--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing flavoring syrups (except coffee-based syrups)--are classified in Industry 311930, Flavoring
          Syrup and Concentrate Manufacturing;
      Mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated potato, rice, and pasta and packaging them with other purchased
          ingredients, and manufacturing prepared frosting--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other
          Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coffee extracts and/or coffee-based syrups--are classified in Industry 311920, Coffee and
          Tea Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing meat extracts--are classified in Industry 31161, Animal Slaughtering and Processing;
      Manufacturing synthetic food colorings--are classified in Industry 325130, Synthetic Dye and Pigment
                  Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing natural organic colorings for nonfood uses--are classified in U.S. Industry 325199, All
          Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing.

31199     All Other Food Manufacturing    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing food (except animal food; grain and
oilseed milling; sugar and confectionery products; preserved fruits, vegetables, and specialties; dairy products; meat
products; seafood products; bakeries and tortillas; snack foods; coffee and tea; flavoring syrups and concentrates;
seasonings; and dressings). Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in mixing purchased
dried and/or dehydrated ingredients including those mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients for soup
mixes and bouillon.

Illustrative Examples:

Baking powder manufacturing
Cut or peeled fresh vegetables manufacturing
Dessert puddings manufacturing
Egg substitutes manufacturing
Fresh pasta manufacturing
Fresh pizza manufacturing
Honey processing
Popcorn (except popped) manufacturing
Powdered drink mixes (except chocolate, coffee, tea, or milk based) manufacturing
Sweetening syrups (except pure maple) manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing animal foods--are classified in Industry Group 3111, Animal Food Manufacturing;
      Milling grain and oilseed--are classified in Industry Group 3112, Grain and Oilseed Milling;
      Manufacturing sugar and confectionery products--are classified in Industry Group 3113, Sugar and
          Confectionery Product Manufacturing;
      Preserving fruit, vegetables, and specialty foods--are classified in Industry Group 3114, Fruit and
          Vegetable Preserving and Specialty Food Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing dairy products--are classified in Industry Group 3115, Dairy Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing meat products--are classified in Industry Group 3116, Animal Slaughtering and Processing;
      Manufacturing seafood products--are classified in Industry Group 3117, Seafood Product Preparation and
          Packaging;
      Manufacturing bakery and tortilla products--are classified in Industry Group 3118, Bakeries and Tortilla
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing snack foods--are classified in Industry 31191, Snack Food Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coffee and tea--are classified in Industry 31192, Coffee and Tea Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing flavoring syrups and concentrates (except coffee-based)--are classified in Industry 31193,
          Flavoring Syrup and Concentrate Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing seasonings and dressings--are classified in Industry 31194, Seasoning and Dressing
          Manufacturing;

      Milling rice and packaging it with other ingredients--are classified in Industry 31121, Flour Milling and
          Malt Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing dry pasta and packaging it with other ingredients--are classified in Industry 31182, Cookie,
          Cracker, and Pasta Manufacturing; and
      Drying and/or dehydrating ingredients and packaging them with other purchased ingredients--are classified
          in Industry 31142, Fruit and Vegetable Canning, Pickling, and Drying.

311991 Perishable Prepared Food Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing perishable prepared foods, such
as salads, sandwiches, prepared meals, fresh pizza, fresh pasta, and peeled or cut vegetables.

311999 All Other Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing food (except animal food; grain
and oilseed milling; sugar and confectionery products; preserved fruits, vegetables, and specialties; dairy products;
meat products; seafood products; bakeries and tortillas; snack foods; coffee and tea; flavoring syrups and
concentrates; seasonings and dressings; and perishable prepared food). Included in this industry are establishments
primarily engaged in mixing purchased dried and/or dehydrated ingredients including those mixing purchased dried
and/or dehydrated ingredients for soup mixes and bouillon.

Illustrative Examples:

Baking powder manufacturing
Cake frosting, prepared, manufacturing
Dessert puddings manufacturing
Egg substitutes manufacturing
Gelatin dessert preparations manufacturing
Popcorn (except popped) manufacturing
Honey processing
Powdered drink mixes (except chocolate, coffee, tea, or milk based) manufacturing
Sweetening syrups (except pure maple) manufacturing
Yeast manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing animal foods--are classified in Industry Group 3111, Animal Food Manufacturing;
      Milling grain and oilseed--are classified in Industry Group 3112, Grain and Oilseed Milling;
      Manufacturing sugar and confectionery products--are classified in Industry Group 3113, Sugar and
          Confectionery Product Manufacturing;
      Preserving fruit, vegetable, and specialty foods--are classified in Industry Group 3114, Fruit and Vegetable
          Preserving and Specialty Food Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing dairy products--are classified in Industry Group 3115, Dairy Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing meat products--are classified in Industry Group 3116, Animal Slaughtering and Processing;
      Manufacturing seafood products--are classified in Industry Group 3117, Seafood Product Preparation and
          Packaging;
      Manufacturing bakery and tortilla products--are classified in Industry Group 3118, Bakeries and Tortilla
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing snack foods--are classified in Industry 31191, Snack Food Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coffee and tea--are classified in Industry 31192, Coffee and Tea Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing flavoring syrups and concentrates (except coffee-based)--are classified in Industry 31193,
          Flavoring Syrup and Concentrate Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing seasonings and dressings--are classified in Industry 31194, Seasoning and Dressing
          Manufacturing;

     Manufacturing perishable prepared foods--are classified in U.S. Industry 311991, Perishable Prepared Food
         Manufacturing;
     Milling rice and packaging it with other ingredients--are classified in U.S. Industry 311212, Rice Milling;
     Manufacturing dry pasta and packaging it with ingredients--are classified in U.S. Industry 311824, Dry
         Pasta, Dough, and Flour Mixes Manufacturing from Purchased Flour; and
     Drying and/or dehydrating ingredients and packaging them with other purchased ingredients--are classified
         in U.S. Industry 311423, Dried and Dehydrated Food Manufacturing.

312      Beverage and Tobacco Product Manufacturing         T



 Industries in the Beverage and Tobacco Product Manufacturing subsector manufacture beverages and tobacco
products. The industry group, Beverage Manufacturing, includes three types of establishments: (1) those that
manufacture nonalcoholic beverages; (2) those that manufacture alcoholic beverages through the fermentation
process; and (3) those that produce distilled alcoholic beverages. Ice manufacturing, while not a beverage, is
included with nonalcoholic beverage manufacturing because it uses the same production process as water
purification.
 In the case of activities related to the manufacture of beverages, the structure follows the defined production
processes. Brandy, a distilled beverage, was not placed under distillery product manufacturing, but rather under the
NAICS class for winery product manufacturing since the production process used in the manufacturing of alcoholic
grape-based beverages produces both wines (fermented beverage) and brandies (distilled beverage).
 The industry group, Tobacco Manufacturing, includes two types of establishments: (1) those engaged in redrying
and stemming tobacco and, (2) those that manufacture tobacco products, such as cigarettes and cigars.

3121     Beverage Manufacturing       T



31211    Soft Drink and Ice Manufacturing      T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing soft
drinks; (2) manufacturing ice; and (3) purifying and bottling water.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Canning fruit and vegetable juices--are classified in Industry 31142, Fruit and Vegetable Canning, Pickling,
         and Drying;
     Manufacturing soft drink bases--are classified in Industry 31193, Flavoring Syrup and Concentrate
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing nonalcoholic cider--are classified in Industry 31194, Seasoning and Dressing
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing dry ice--are classified in Industry 32512, Industrial Gas Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing milk-based drinks--are classified in Industry 31151, Dairy Product (except Frozen)
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing nonalcoholic beers--are classified in Industry 31212, Breweries;
     Manufacturing nonalcoholic wines--are classified in Industry 31213, Wineries; and
     Bottling purchased purified water--are classified in Industry 42449, Other Grocery and Related Products
         Merchant Wholesalers.

312111 Soft Drink Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing soft drinks and artificially
carbonated waters.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Canning fruit and vegetable juices--are classified in U.S. Industry 311421, Fruit and Vegetable Canning;

     Manufacturing fruit syrups for flavoring--are classified in Industry 311930, Flavoring Syrup and
         Concentrate Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing nonalcoholic cider--are classified in U.S. Industry 311941, Mayonnaise, Dressing, and
         Other Prepared Sauce Manufacturing;
     Purifying and bottling water (except artificially carbonated and flavored water)--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 312112, Bottled Water Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing milk-based drinks--are classified in U.S. Industry 311511, Fluid Milk Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing nonalcoholic beers--are classified in Industry 312120, Breweries; and
     Manufacturing nonalcoholic wines--are classified in Industry 312130, Wineries.

312112 Bottled Water Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in purifying and bottling water (including naturally
carbonated).

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing artificially carbonated waters--are classified in U.S. Industry 312111, Soft Drink
         Manufacturing; and
     Bottling purchased purified water--are classified in Industry 424490, Other Grocery and Related Products
         Merchant Wholesalers.

312113 Ice Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing ice.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dry ice are classified in Industry 325120, Industrial Gas
Manufacturing.

31212    Breweries T

         See industry description for 312120 below.

312120 Breweries

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in brewing beer, ale, malt liquors, and nonalcoholic
beer.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Bottling purchased malt beverages--are classified in Industry 424810, Beer and Ale Merchant Wholesalers;
         and
     Manufacturing malt--are classified in U.S. Industry 311213, Malt Manufacturing.

31213    Wineries T

         See industry description for 312130 below.

312130 Wineries

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) growing grapes and
manufacturing wines and brandies; (2) manufacturing wines and brandies from grapes and other fruits grown
elsewhere; and (3) blending wines and brandies.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in bottling purchased wines are classified in Industry 424820, Wine and
Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Merchant Wholesalers.

31214     DistilleriesT

          See industry description for 312140 below.

312140 Distilleries

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) distilling potable
liquors (except brandies); (2) distilling and blending liquors; and (3) blending and mixing liquors and other
ingredients.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing nonpotable ethyl alcohol--are classified in U.S. Industry 325193, Ethyl Alcohol
          Manufacturing;
      Bottling liquors made elsewhere--are classified in Industry 424820, Wine and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage
          Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Manufacturing brandies--are classified in Industry 312130, Wineries.

3122      Tobacco Manufacturing      T



31223     Tobacco Manufacturing
          See industry description for 312230 below.

312230 Tobacco Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) the stemming and redrying of tobacco and/or (2)
manufacturing cigarettes or other tobacco products.

Illustrative Examples:

Chewing tobacco manufacturing
Cigar manufacturing
Cigarettes manufacturing
Snuff manufacturing
Prepared pipe tobacco manufacturing
Tobacco leaf processing and aging

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Selling leaf tobacco as merchant wholesalers that also engage in stemming tobacco--are classified in
          Industry 424940, Tobacco and Tobacco Product Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Selling leaf tobacco as agents or brokers that also engage in stemming tobacco--are classified in Industry
          425120, Wholesale Trade Agents and Brokers.

313       Textile MillsT



  Industries in the Textile Mills subsector group establishments that transform a basic fiber (natural or synthetic)
into a product, such as yarn or fabric that is further manufactured into usable items, such as apparel, sheets, towels,
and textile bags for individual or industrial consumption. The further manufacturing may be performed in the same
establishment and classified in this subsector, or it may be performed at a separate establishment and be classified
elsewhere in manufacturing.
  The main processes in this subsector include preparation and spinning of fiber, knitting or weaving of fabric, and
the finishing of the textile. The NAICS structure follows and captures this process flow. Major industries in this

flow, such as preparation of fibers, weaving of fabric, knitting of fabric, and fiber and fabric finishing, are uniquely
identified. Texturizing, throwing, twisting, and winding of yarn contains aspects of both fiber preparation and fiber
finishing and is classified with preparation of fibers rather than with finishing of fiber.
  NAICS separates the manufacturing of primary textiles and the manufacturing of textile products (except apparel)
when the textile product is produced from purchased primary textiles, such as fabric. The manufacturing of textile
products (except apparel) from purchased fabric is classified in Subsector 314, Textile Product Mills, and apparel
from purchased fabric is classified in Subsector 315, Apparel Manufacturing.
  Excluded from this subsector are establishments that weave or knit fabric and make garments. These
establishments are included in Subsector 315, Apparel Manufacturing.

3131     Fiber, Yarn, and Thread Mills     T



31311    Fiber, Yarn, and Thread Mills     T

         See industry description for 313110 below.

313110 Fiber, Yarn, and Thread Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) spinning yarn; (2)
manufacturing thread of any fiber; (3) texturizing, throwing, twisting, and winding purchased yarn or manmade fiber
filaments; and (4) producing hemp yarn and further processing into rope or bags.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing artificial and synthetic fibers and filaments and texturizing
these filaments are classified in Industry 325220, Artificial and Synthetic Fibers and Filaments Manufacturing.

3132     Fabric Mills  T



31321    Broadwoven Fabric Mills     T

         See industry description for 313210 below.

313210 Broadwoven Fabric Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in weaving broadwoven fabrics and felts (except tire
fabrics and rugs). Establishments in this industry may weave only, weave and finish, or weave, finish, and further
fabricate fabric products.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Weaving widths specifically constructed for cutting to narrow widths--are classified in Industry 313220,
         Narrow Fabric Mills and Schiffli Machine Embroidery;
      Weaving or tufting carpet and rugs--are classified in Industry 314110, Carpet and Rug Mills; and
      Making tire cord and tire fabrics--are classified in U.S. Industry 314994, Rope, Cordage, Twine, Tire Cord,
         and Tire Fabric Mills.

31322    Narrow Fabric Mills and Schiffli Machine Embroidery          T

         See industry description for 313220 below.

313220 Narrow Fabric Mills and Schiffli Machine Embroidery

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) weaving or
braiding narrow fabrics in their final form or initially made in wider widths that are specially constructed for
narrower widths; (2) making fabric-covered elastic yarn and thread; and (3) manufacturing Schiffli machine
embroideries. Establishments in this industry may weave only; weave and finish; or weave, finish, and further
fabricate fabric products.

31323    Nonwoven Fabric Mills       T

         See industry description for 313230 below.

313230 Nonwoven Fabric Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonwoven fabrics and felts. Processes
used include bonding and/or interlocking fibers by mechanical, chemical, thermal, or solvent means, or by
combinations thereof.

31324    Knit Fabric Mills    T

         See industry description for 313240 below.

313240 Knit Fabric Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) knitting weft (i.e., circular)
and warp (i.e., flat) fabric; (2) knitting and finishing weft and warp fabric; (3) manufacturing lace; or (4)
manufacturing, dyeing, and finishing lace and lace goods. Establishments in this industry may knit only; knit and
finish; or knit, finish, and further fabricate fabric products (except apparel).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in knitting apparel are classified in Industry Group 3151, Apparel Knitting
Mills.

3133     Textile and Fabric Finishing and Fabric Coating Mills         T



31331    Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills      T

         See industry description for 313310 below.

313310 Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills

  This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in finishing of textiles, fabrics, and apparel, and (2)
establishments of converters who buy fabric goods in the grey, have them finished on contract, and sell at wholesale.
Finishing operations include: bleaching, dyeing, printing (e.g., roller, screen, flock, plisse), stonewashing, and other
mechanical finishing, such as preshrinking, shrinking, sponging, calendering, mercerizing, and napping; as well as
cleaning, scouring, and the preparation of natural fibers and raw stock.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Coating or impregnating fabrics--are classified in Industry 313320, Fabric Coating Mills;
      Knitting or knitting and finishing fabric--are classified in Industry 313240, Knit Fabric Mills;
      Manufacturing and finishing apparel--are classified in Subsector 315, Apparel Manufacturing;
      Weaving and finishing fabrics--are classified in Industry Group 3132, Fabric Mills;
      Manufacturing and finishing rugs and carpets--are classified in Industry 314110, Carpet and Rug Mills; and
      Printing on apparel--are classified in Industry 32311, Printing.

31332    Fabric Coating Mills     T

         See industry description for 313320 below.

313320 Fabric Coating Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in coating, laminating, varnishing, waxing, and
rubberizing textiles and apparel.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in dyeing and finishing textiles are classified in Industry 313310, Textile and
Fabric Finishing Mills.

314       Textile Product Mills  T



  Industries in the Textile Product Mills subsector group establishments that make textile products (except apparel).
With a few exceptions, processes used in these industries are generally cut and sew (i.e., purchasing fabric and
cutting and sewing to make nonapparel textile products, such as sheets and towels).

3141      Textile Furnishings Mills  T



31411     Carpet and Rug Mills   T

          See industry description for 314110 below.

314110 Carpet and Rug Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing woven, tufted, and other carpets
and rugs, such as art squares, floor mattings, needlepunch carpeting, and door mats and mattings, from textile
materials or from twisted paper, grasses, reeds, sisal, jute, or rags and/or (2) finishing carpets and rugs.

31412     Curtain and Linen Mills    T

          See industry description for 314120 below.

314120 Curtain and Linen Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing household textile products, such as
curtains, draperies, linens, bedspreads, sheets, tablecloths, towels, and shower curtains, from purchased materials.
The household textile products may be made on a stock or custom basis for sale to individual retail customers.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Weaving broadwoven fabrics--are classified in Industry 313210, Broadwoven Fabric Mills;
      Manufacturing lace curtains on lace machines--are classified in Industry 313240, Knit Fabric Mills;
      Manufacturing textile blanket, wardrobe, and laundry bags--are classified in Industry 314910, Textile Bag
          and Canvas Mills; and
      Manufacturing mops--are classified in U.S. Industry 339994, Broom, Brush, and Mop Manufacturing.

3149      Other Textile Product Mills   T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in making textile products (except carpets and
rugs, curtains and draperies, and other household textile products) from purchased materials.

31491     Textile Bag and Canvas Mills    T

          See industry description for 314910 below.

314910 Textile Bag and Canvas Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing textile bags or other canvas and
canvas-like products, such as awnings, sails, tarpaulins, and tents from purchased textile fabrics or yarns.

Illustrative Examples:

Covers (e.g., boat, swimming pool, truck) made from purchased fabrics
Laundry bags made from purchased woven or knitted materials
Seed bags made from purchased woven or knitted materials

Textile bags made from purchased woven or knitted materials

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing plastic bags--are classified in U.S. Industry 326111, Plastics Bag and Pouch Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing canvas blinds and shades--are classified in Industry 337920, Blind and Shade
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing women's handbags and purses of leather or other material (except precious metal)--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 316992, Women's Handbag and Purse Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing luggage--are classified in U.S. Industry 316998, All Other Leather Good and Allied Product
          Manufacturing.

31499     All Other Textile Product Mills    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonapparel textile products (except
carpet, rugs, curtains, linens, bags, and canvas products) from purchased materials. This industry includes
establishments primarily engaged in decorative stitching such as embroidery or other art needlework on textile
products, including apparel.

Illustrative Examples:

Batts and batting (except nonwoven fabrics) manufacturing
Carpet cutting and binding
Diapers (except disposable) made from purchased materials
Embroidering on textile products or apparel for the trade
Fishing nets made from purchased materials
Ropes (except wire rope) manufacturing
Sleeping bags manufacturing
Tire cord and fabric, all materials, manufacturing
Twines manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing yarns and thread--are classified in Industry 31311, Fiber, Yarn, and Thread Mills;
      Manufacturing carpets and rugs--are classified in Industry 31411, Carpet and Rug Mills;
      Manufacturing apparel--are classified in Subsector 315, Apparel Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing curtains and linens--are classified in Industry 31412, Curtain and Linen Mills; and
      Manufacturing textile bags and canvas products--are classified in Industry 31491, Textile Bag and Canvas
          Mills.

314994 Rope, Cordage, Twine, Tire Cord, and Tire Fabric Mills

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing rope, cable, cordage, twine,
and related products from all materials (e.g., abaca, sisal, henequen, cotton, paper, jute, flax, manmade fibers
including glass) and/or (2) manufacturing cord and fabric of polyester, rayon, cotton, glass, steel, or other materials
for use in reinforcing rubber tires, industrial belting, and similar uses.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in spinning yarns and filaments are classified in Industry 313110, Fiber, Yarn,
and Thread Mills.

314999 All Other Miscellaneous Textile Product Mills

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing textile products (except carpets
and rugs; curtains and linens; textile bags and canvas products; rope, cordage, and twine; and tire cords and tire
fabrics) from purchased materials. These establishments may further embellish the textile products they
manufacture with decorative stitching. Establishments primarily engaged in adding decorative stitching such as
embroidery or other art needlework on textile products, including apparel, on a contract or fee basis for the trade, are
included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Batts and batting (except nonwoven fabrics) manufacturing
Embroidering on textile products or apparel for the trade
Fishing nets made from purchased materials
Carpet cutting and binding
Sleeping bags manufacturing
Diapers (except disposable) made from purchased materials
Textile fire hoses made from purchased materials
Dust cloths made from purchased fabric
Weatherstripping made from purchased textiles

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing yarns and thread--are classified in Industry 313110, Fiber, Yarn, and Thread Mills;
      Manufacturing carpets and rugs--are classified in Industry 314110, Carpet and Rug Mills;
      Manufacturing curtains and linens--are classified in Industry 314120, Curtain and Linen Mills;
      Manufacturing textile bags and canvas products--are classified in Industry 314910, Textile Bag and Canvas
          Mills; and
      Manufacturing rope, cordage, twine, tire cord, and tire fabrics--are classified in U.S. Industry 314994,
          Rope, Cordage, Twine, Tire Cord, and Tire Fabric Mills.

315       Apparel Manufacturing     T



  Industries in the Apparel Manufacturing subsector group establishments with two distinct manufacturing
processes: (1) cut and sew (i.e., purchasing fabric and cutting and sewing to make a garment), and (2) the
manufacture of garments in establishments that first knit fabric and then cut and sew the fabric into a garment. The
Apparel Manufacturing subsector includes a diverse range of establishments manufacturing full lines of ready-to-
wear apparel and custom apparel: apparel contractors, performing cutting or sewing operations on materials owned
by others; jobbers performing entrepreneurial functions involved in apparel manufacture; and tailors, manufacturing
custom garments for individual clients are all included. Knitting, when done alone, is classified in the Textile Mills
subsector, but when knitting is combined with the production of complete garments, the activity is classified in
Apparel Manufacturing.

3151      Apparel Knitting Mills   T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in knitting apparel or knitting fabric and then
manufacturing apparel. This industry group includes jobbers performing entrepreneurial functions involved in
knitting apparel and accessories. Knitting fabric, without manufacturing apparel, is classified in Subsector 313,
Textile Mills.

31511     Hosiery and Sock Mills   T

          See industry description for 315110 below.

315110 Hosiery and Sock Mills

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in knitting or knitting and finishing hosiery and socks.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing orthopedic hosiery--are classified in U.S. Industry 339113, Surgical Appliance and Supplies
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing slipper socks from purchased socks--are classified in Industry 316210, Footwear
         Manufacturing; and
     Finishing apparel products only--are classified in Industry 313310, Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills.

31519    Other Apparel Knitting Mills   T

         See industry description for 315190 below.

315190 Other Apparel Knitting Mills

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) knitting underwear,
outerwear, and/or nightwear; (2) knitting fabric and manufacturing underwear, outerwear, and/or nightwear; or (3)
knitting, manufacturing, and finishing knit underwear, outerwear, and/or nightwear.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing outerwear, underwear, and nightwear from purchased fabric--are classified in Industry
         Group 3152, Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing; and
     Finishing apparel products only--are classified in Industry 313310, Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills.

3152     Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing       T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing cut and sew apparel from
woven fabric or purchased knit fabric. Included in this industry group is a diverse range of establishments
manufacturing full lines of ready-to-wear apparel and custom apparel: apparel contractors, performing cutting or
sewing operations on materials owned by others; jobbers performing entrepreneurial functions involved in apparel
manufacture; and tailors, manufacturing custom garments for individual clients. Establishments weaving or knitting
fabric, without manufacturing apparel, are classified in Subsector 313, Textile Mills.

31521    Cut and Sew Apparel Contractors
         See industry description for 315210 below.

315210 Cut and Sew Apparel Contractors

 This industry comprises establishments commonly referred to as contractors primarily engaged in (1) cutting
materials owned by others for apparel and accessories and/or (2) sewing materials owned by others for apparel and
accessories.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing men's and boys' apparel from purchased fabric--are classified in Industry 315220, Men's and
         Boys' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing women's, girls', and infants' apparel from purchased fabric--are classified in Industry
         315240, Women's, Girls', and Infants' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing all other cut and sew apparel from purchased fabric--are classified in Industry 315280,
         Other Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing apparel accessories from purchased fabric--are classified in Industry 315990, Apparel
         Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing; and
     Embroidering apparel on a contract or fee basis for the trade--are classified in U.S. Industry 314999, All
         Other Miscellaneous Textile Product Mills.

31522    Men's and Boys' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing
         See industry description for 315220 below.

315220 Men's and Boys' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing men's and boys' cut and sew apparel
from purchased fabric. Men's and boys' clothing jobbers, who perform entrepreneurial functions involved in apparel
manufacture, including buying raw materials, designing and preparing samples, arranging for apparel to be made
from their materials, and marketing finished apparel, are included.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Cutting and/or sewing materials owned by others for men's and boys' apparel--are classified in Industry
         315210, Cut and Sew Apparel Contractors;
     Knitting men's and boys' apparel or knitting fabric and manufacturing men's and boys' apparel--are
         classified in Industry Group 3151, Apparel Knitting Mills; and
     Manufacturing fur or leather apparel and team athletic uniforms--are classified in Industry 315280, Other
         Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing.

31524    Women's, Girls', and Infants' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing
         See industry description for 315240 below.

315240 Women's, Girls', and Infants' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing women's, girls', and infants' apparel
from purchased fabric. Women's, girls', and infants' clothing jobbers, who perform entrepreneurial functions
involved in apparel manufacture, including buying raw materials, designing and preparing samples, arranging for
apparel to be made from their materials, and marketing finished apparel, are included.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Knitting women's, girls', and infants' apparel or knitting fabric and manufacturing women's, girls', and
         infants' apparel--are classified in Industry Group 3151, Apparel Knitting Mills;
     Manufacturing unisex outerwear garments, such as T-shirts, sweatshirts, and sweatpants that are sized
         without reference to specific gender (i.e., adult S, M, L, XL)--are classified in Industry 315220, Men's and
         Boys' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing;
     Cutting and/or sewing materials owned by others for women's, girls', and infants' apparel--are classified in
         Industry 315210, Cut and Sew Apparel Contractors;
     Manufacturing fur or leather apparel and team athletic uniforms--are classified in Industry 315280, Other
         Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing cloth diapers--are classified in U.S. Industry 314999, All Other Miscellaneous Textile
         Product Mills.

31528    Other Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing
         See industry description for 315280 below.

315280 Other Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing cut and sew apparel from purchased
fabric (except men's, boys', women's, girls', and infants' apparel). Clothing jobbers for these products, who perform
entrepreneurial functions involved in apparel manufacture, including buying raw materials, designing and preparing
samples, arranging for apparel to be made from their materials, and marketing finished apparel, are included.
Examples of products made by these establishments are fur or leather apparel, sheep-lined clothing, team athletic
uniforms, band uniforms, academic caps and gowns, clerical vestments, and costumes.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing men's and boys' apparel from purchased fabric--are classified in Industry 315220, Men's and
        Boys' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing women's, girls', and infants' apparel from purchased fabric--are classified in Industry
        315240, Women's, Girls', and Infants' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing;
     Knitting apparel or knitting fabric and manufacturing apparel--are classified in Industry Group 3151,
        Apparel Knitting Mills;
     Cutting and/or sewing materials owned by others for apparel--are classified in Industry 315210, Cut and
        Sew Apparel Contractors;
     Manufacturing fur and leather mittens and gloves--are classified in Industry 315990, Apparel Accessories
        and Other Apparel Manufacturing; and
     Dyeing and dressing furs--are classified in Industry 316110, Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing.

3159    Apparel Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing          T



31599   Apparel Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing          T

        See industry description for 315990 below.

315990 Apparel Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing apparel and accessories (except
apparel knitting mills, cut and sew apparel contractors, men's and boys' cut and sew apparel, women's and girls' cut
and sew apparel, and other cut and sew apparel). Jobbers, who perform entrepreneurial functions involved in
apparel accessories manufacture, including buying raw materials, designing and preparing samples, arranging for
apparel accessories to be made from their materials, and marketing finished apparel accessories, are included.
Examples of products made by these establishments are belts, caps, gloves (except medical, sporting, safety), hats,
and neckties.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Cutting and/or sewing materials owned by others for apparel accessories--are classified in Industry 315210,
        Cut and Sew Apparel Contractors;
     Manufacturing paper hats and caps--are classified in U.S. Industry 322299, All Other Converted Paper
        Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing plastics or rubber hats and caps (except bathing caps)--are classified in Subsector 326,
        Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing athletic gloves, such as boxing gloves, baseball gloves, golf gloves, batting gloves, and
        racquetball gloves--are classified in Industry 339920, Sporting and Athletic Goods Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing metal fabric, metal mesh, or rubber gloves--are classified in U.S. Industry 339113, Surgical
        Appliance and Supplies Manufacturing;
     Knitting apparel, mittens, gloves, hats, and caps or knitting fabric and manufacturing apparel, mittens,
        gloves, hats, and caps--are classified in Industry Group 3151, Apparel Knitting Mills;
     Cutting and/or sewing materials owned by others for apparel--are classified in Industry 315210, Cut and
        Sew Apparel Contractors;
     Manufacturing men's and boys' underwear and outerwear from purchased fabric--are classified in Industry
        315220, Men's and Boys' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing women's, girls', and infants' underwear and outerwear from purchased fabric--are classified
        in Industry 315240, Women's, Girls', and Infants' Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing other apparel from purchased fabric and manufacturing fur and leather apparel--are
        classified in Industry 315280, Other Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing.

316     Leather and Allied Product Manufacturing         T



 Establishments in the Leather and Allied Product Manufacturing subsector transform hides into leather by tanning
or curing and fabricating the leather into products for final consumption. It also includes the manufacture of similar
products from other materials, including products (except apparel) made from "leather substitutes," such as rubber,

plastics, or textiles. Rubber footwear, textile luggage, and plastics purses or wallets are examples of "leather
substitute" products included in this group. The products made from leather substitutes are included in this
subsector because they are made in similar ways leather products are made (e.g., luggage). They are made in the
same establishments, so it is not practical to separate them.
  The inclusion of leather making in this subsector is partly because leather tanning is a relatively small industry that
has few close neighbors as a production process, partly because leather is an input to some of the other products
classified in this subsector and partly for historical reasons.

3161      Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing        T



31611     Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing        T

          See industry description for 316110 below.

316110 Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) tanning, currying,
and finishing hides and skins; (2) having others process hides and skins on a contract basis; and (3) dyeing or
dressing furs.

3162      Footwear Manufacturing      T



31621     Footwear Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 316210 below.

316210 Footwear Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing footwear (except orthopedic extension
footwear).

Illustrative Examples:

Athletic shoes manufacturing
Ballet slippers manufacturing
Cleated athletic shoes manufacturing
Shoes, children's and infants' (except orthopedic extension), manufacturing
Shoes, men's (except orthopedic extension), manufacturing
Shoes, women's (except orthopedic extension), manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing orthopedic extension footwear are classified in U.S. Industry
339113, Surgical Appliance and Supplies Manufacturing.

3169      Other Leather and Allied Product Manufacturing        T



31699     Other Leather and Allied Product Manufacturing        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing leather products (except footwear and
apparel) from purchased leather or leather substitutes (e.g., fabric, plastics).

Illustrative Examples:

Billfolds, all materials, manufacturing
Boot and shoe cut stock and findings, leather, manufacturing
Dog furnishings (e.g., collars, leashes, harnesses, muzzles), manufacturing
Luggage, all materials, manufacturing

Purses, women's, all materials (except metal), manufacturing
Shoe soles, leather, manufacturing
Toilet kits and cases (except metal) manufacturing
Watchbands (except metal) manufacturing
Welders' jackets, leggings, and sleeves, leather, manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing leather apparel--are classified in Industry 31528, Other Cut and Sew Apparel
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing leather gloves, mittens, belts, and apparel accessories--are classified in Industry 31599,
          Apparel Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing footwear--are classified in Industry 31621, Footwear Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing nonleather soles--are classified elsewhere based on the primary input material;
      Manufacturing small articles made of metal carried on or about the person--are classified in Industry
          33991, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing leather gaskets--are classified in Industry 33999, All Other Miscellaneous Manufacturing.

316992 Women's Handbag and Purse Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing women's handbags and purses of
any material (except precious metal).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing precious metal handbags and purses are classified in Industry
339910, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing.

316998 All Other Leather Good and Allied Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing leather products (except
footwear, handbags, purses, and apparel) from purchased leather or leather substitutes (e.g., fabric, plastics).

Illustrative Examples:

Billfolds, all materials, manufacturing
Boot and shoe cut stock and findings, leather, manufacturing
Coin purses (except metal) manufacturing
Dog furnishings (e.g., collars, leashes, harnesses, muzzles), manufacturing
Key cases (except metal) manufacturing
Leather belting for machinery (e.g., flat, solid, twisted, built-up) manufacturing
Luggage, all materials, manufacturing
Shoe soles, leather, manufacturing
Toilet kits and cases (except metal) manufacturing
Watchbands (except metal) manufacturing
Welders' jackets, leggings, and sleeves, leather, manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing handbags and purses--are classified in U.S. Industry 316992, Women's Handbag and Purse
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing leather apparel--are classified in Industry 315280, Other Cut and Sew Apparel
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing leather gloves, mittens, belts, and apparel accessories--are classified in Industry 315990,
          Apparel Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing footwear--are classified in Industry 316210, Footwear Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing nonleather soles--are classified elsewhere based on primary input material;
      Manufacturing small articles made of metal carried on or about the person--are classified in Industry
         339910, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing leather gaskets--are classified in U.S. Industry 339991, Gasket, Packing, and Sealing Device
         Manufacturing.

321      Wood Product Manufacturing         T



  Industries in the Wood Product Manufacturing subsector manufacture wood products, such as lumber, plywood,
veneers, wood containers, wood flooring, wood trusses, manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes), and prefabricated
wood buildings. The production processes of the Wood Product Manufacturing subsector include sawing, planing,
shaping, laminating, and assembling of wood products starting from logs that are cut into bolts, or lumber that then
may be further cut, or shaped by lathes or other shaping tools. The lumber or other transformed wood shapes may
also be subsequently planed or smoothed, and assembled into finished products, such as wood containers. The
Wood Product Manufacturing subsector includes establishments that make wood products from logs and bolts that
are sawed and shaped, and establishments that purchase sawed lumber and make wood products. With the exception
of sawmills and wood preservation establishments, the establishments are grouped into industries mainly based on
the specific products manufactured.

3211     Sawmills and Wood Preservation        T



  This industry group comprises establishments whose primary production process begins with logs or bolts that are
transformed into boards, dimension lumber, beams, timbers, poles, ties, shingles, shakes, siding, and wood chips.
Establishments that cut and treat round wood and/or treat wood products made in other establishments to prevent
rotting by impregnation with creosote or other chemical compounds are also included in this industry group.

32111    Sawmills and Wood Preservation        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) sawing dimension
lumber, boards, beams, timber, poles, ties, shingles, shakes, siding, and wood chips from logs or bolts; (2) sawing
round wood poles, pilings, and posts and treating them with preservatives; and (3) treating wood sawed, planed, or
shaped in other establishments with creosote or other preservatives to prevent decay and to protect against fire and
insects. Sawmills may plane the rough lumber that they make with a planing machine to achieve smoothness and
uniformity of size.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating portable chipper mills in the field--are classified in Industry 11331, Logging;
      Manufacturing wood products (except round wood poles, pilings, and posts) and treating them with
         preservatives--are classified elsewhere in Subsector 321, Wood Product Manufacturing, based on the
         related production process;
      Manufacturing veneer from logs and bolts or manufacturing engineered lumber and structural members
         other than solid wood--are classified in Industry 32121, Veneer, Plywood, and Engineered Wood Product
         Manufacturing; and
      Planing purchased lumber or manufacturing cut stock or dimension stock (i.e., shapes) from logs or bolts--
         are classified in Industry 32191, Millwork.

321113 Sawmills

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in sawing dimension lumber, boards, beams,
timbers, poles, ties, shingles, shakes, siding, and wood chips from logs or bolts. Sawmills may plane the rough
lumber that they make with a planing machine to achieve smoothness and uniformity of size.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Planing purchased lumber or manufacturing cut stock or dimension stock (i.e., shapes) from logs or bolts--
          are classified in Industry 32191, Millwork;
      Manufacturing veneer from logs or bolts--are classified in Industry 32121, Veneer, Plywood, and
          Engineered Wood Product Manufacturing; and
      Operating portable chipper mills in the field--are classified in Industry 113310, Logging.

321114 Wood Preservation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) treating wood sawed, planed, or shaped in
other establishments with creosote or other preservatives, such as alkaline copper quat, copper azole, and sodium
borates, to prevent decay and to protect against fire and insects and/or (2) sawing round wood poles, pilings, and
posts and treating them with preservatives.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood products (except round wood poles, pilings, and posts)
and treating them with preservatives are classified elsewhere in Subsector 321, Wood Product Manufacturing, based
on the related production process.

3212      Veneer, Plywood, and Engineered Wood Product Manufacturing            T



32121     Veneer, Plywood, and Engineered Wood Product Manufacturing            T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
veneer and/or plywood; (2) manufacturing engineered wood members; and (3) manufacturing reconstituted wood
products. This industry includes manufacturing plywood from veneer made in the same establishment or from
veneer made in other establishments, and manufacturing plywood faced with nonwood materials, such as plastics or
metal.

Illustrative Examples:

Fabricated structural wood members manufacturing
Laminated structural wood members manufacturing
Medium density fiberboard (MDF) manufacturing
Oriented strandboard (OSB) manufacturing
Particleboard manufacturing
Plywood manufacturing
Reconstituted wood sheets and boards manufacturing
Roof trusses, wood, manufacturing
Veneer mills
Waferboard manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing veneer and further processing that veneer into wood containers or wood container parts in
          the same establishment--are classified in Industry 32192, Wood Container and Pallet Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing prefabricated wood buildings or wood sections, and panels for buildings--are classified in
          Industry 32199, All Other Wood Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing solid wood structural members, such as dimension lumber and timber from logs or bolts in
          sawmills--are classified in Industry 32111, Sawmills and Wood Preservation.

321211 Hardwood Veneer and Plywood Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing hardwood veneer and/or
hardwood plywood.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing veneer and further processing that veneer into wood containers or wood container parts--are
          classified in Industry 321920, Wood Container and Pallet Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing softwood veneer and softwood plywood--are classified in U.S. Industry 321212, Softwood
          Veneer and Plywood Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing reconstituted wood sheets and boards--are classified in U.S. Industry 321219, Reconstituted
          Wood Product Manufacturing.

321212 Softwood Veneer and Plywood Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing softwood veneer and/or
softwood plywood.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing veneer and further processing that veneer into wood containers or wood container parts--are
          classified in Industry 321920, Wood Container and Pallet Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing hardwood veneer and hardwood plywood--are classified in U.S. Industry 321211,
          Hardwood Veneer and Plywood Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing reconstituted wood sheets and boards--are classified in U.S. Industry 321219, Reconstituted
          Wood Product Manufacturing.

321213 Engineered Wood Member (except Truss) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fabricated or laminated wood
arches and/or other fabricated or laminated wood structural members.

Illustrative Examples:

Finger joint lumber manufacturing
I-joists, wood, fabricating
Laminated veneer lumber (LVL) manufacturing
Parallel strand lumber manufacturing
Timbers, structural, glue laminated or pre-engineered wood, manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing prefabricated wood buildings, or wood sections, and panels for buildings--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 321992, Prefabricated Wood Building Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing wood trusses--are classified in U.S. Industry 321214, Truss Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing solid wood structural members, such as dimension lumber and timber from logs or bolts--
          are classified in U.S. Industry 321113, Sawmills.

321214 Truss Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing laminated or fabricated wood
roof and floor trusses.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood I-joists are classified in U.S. Industry 321213,
Engineered Wood Member (except Truss) Manufacturing.

321219 Reconstituted Wood Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing reconstituted wood sheets and
boards.

Illustrative Examples:

Medium density fiberboard (MDF) manufacturing
Oriented strandboard (OSB) manufacturing
Particleboard manufacturing
Reconstituted wood sheets and boards manufacturing
Waferboard manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing softwood plywood--are classified in U.S. Industry 321212, Softwood Veneer and Plywood
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing hardwood plywood--are classified in U.S. Industry 321211, Hardwood Veneer and Plywood
          Manufacturing.

3219      Other Wood Product Manufacturing        T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood products (except
establishments operating sawmills and wood preservation facilities; and establishments manufacturing veneer,
plywood, or engineered wood products).

32191     Millwork  T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing hardwood and softwood cut stock and
dimension stock (i.e., shapes); wood windows and wood doors; and other millwork including wood flooring.
Dimension stock or cut stock is defined as lumber and worked wood products cut or shaped to specialized sizes.
These establishments generally use woodworking machinery, such as jointers, planers, lathes, and routers to shape
wood.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing dimension lumber, boards, beams, timbers, poles, ties, shingles, shakes, siding, and wood
          chips from logs and bolts--are classified in Industry 32111, Sawmills and Wood Preservation;
      Fabricating millwork at the construction site--are classified in Industry 23835, Finish Carpentry
          Contractors; and
      Manufacturing wood furniture frames and finished wood furniture parts--are classified in Industry 33721,
          Office Furniture (including Fixtures) Manufacturing.

321911 Wood Window and Door Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing window and door units, sash,
window and door frames, and doors from wood or wood clad with metal or plastics.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in fabricating wood windows or wood doors at the construction site are
classified in Industry 238350, Finish Carpentry Contractors.

321912 Cut Stock, Resawing Lumber, and Planing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
dimension lumber from purchased lumber; (2) manufacturing dimension stock (i.e., shapes) or cut stock; (3)
resawing the output of sawmills; and (4) planing purchased lumber. These establishments generally use
woodworking machinery, such as jointers, planers, lathes, and routers to shape wood.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing dimension lumber, boards, beams, timbers, poles, ties, shingles, shakes, siding, and wood
          chips from logs or bolts--are classified in U.S. Industry 321113, Sawmills;
      Manufacturing wood stairwork, wood molding, wood trim, and other millwork--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 321918, Other Millwork (including Flooring); and
      Manufacturing wood furniture frames and finished wood furniture parts--are classified in U.S. Industry
          337215, Showcase, Partition, Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing.

321918 Other Millwork (including Flooring)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing millwork (except wood
windows, wood doors, and cut stock).

Illustrative Examples:

Clear and finger joint wood moldings manufacturing
Decorative wood moldings (e.g., base, chair rail, crown, shoe) manufacturing
Ornamental woodwork (e.g., cornices, mantel) manufacturing
Planing mills, millwork
Stairwork (e.g., newel posts, railings, stairs, staircases), wood, manufacturing
Wood flooring manufacturing
Wood shutters manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing wood windows and doors--are classified in U.S. Industry 321911, Wood Window and Door
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing cut stock, resawing lumber, and/or planing purchased lumber--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 321912, Cut Stock, Resawing Lumber, and Planing.

32192     Wood Container and Pallet Manufacturing          T

          See industry description for 321920 below.

321920 Wood Container and Pallet Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood pallets, wood box shook, wood
boxes, other wood containers, and wood parts for pallets and containers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood burial caskets are classified in U.S. Industry 339995,
Burial Casket Manufacturing.

32199     All Other Wood Product Manufacturing          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood products (except establishments
operating sawmills and wood preservation facilities; and establishments manufacturing veneer, plywood, engineered
wood products, millwork, wood containers, or pallets).

Illustrative Examples:

Mobile home manufacturing
Panels, prefabricated wood building, manufacturing
Prefabricated wood buildings
Sections, prefabricated wood building, manufacturing
Wood dowels manufacturing
Wood handles (e.g., broom, handtool, mop) manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating sawmills or preserving wood--are classified in Industry 32111, Sawmills and Wood
          Preservation;
      Manufacturing veneer, plywood, and engineered wood products--are classified in Industry 32121, Veneer,
          Plywood, and Engineered Wood Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing millwork--are classified in Industry 32191, Millwork;
      Manufacturing wood containers, pallets, and wood container parts--are classified in Industry 32192, Wood
          Container and Pallet Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing travel trailers with self-contained facilities for storage of water and waste--are classified in
          Industry 33621, Motor Vehicle Body and Trailer Manufacturing; and
      Fabricating of wood buildings or wood sections and panels for buildings at the construction site--are
          classified in Sector 23, Construction.

321991 Manufactured Home (Mobile Home) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in making manufactured homes (i.e., mobile
homes) and nonresidential mobile buildings. Manufactured homes are designed to accept permanent water, sewer,
and utility connections and although equipped with wheels, they are not intended for regular highway movement.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing prefabricated wood buildings not equipped with wheels--are classified in U.S. Industry
          321992, Prefabricated Wood Building Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing travel trailers with self-contained facilities for storage of water and waste--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 336214, Travel Trailer and Camper Manufacturing.

321992 Prefabricated Wood Building Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing prefabricated wood buildings
and wood sections and panels for prefabricated wood buildings.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Fabricating wood buildings or wood sections and panels for buildings at the construction site--are classified
          in Sector 23, Construction; and
      Making manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes)--are classified in U.S. Industry 321991, Manufactured
          Home (Mobile Home) Manufacturing.

321999 All Other Miscellaneous Wood Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood products (except
establishments operating sawmills and preservation facilities; establishments manufacturing veneer, engineered
wood products, millwork, wood containers, pallets, and wood container parts; and establishments making
manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes) and prefabricated buildings and components).

Illustrative Examples:

Cabinets (i.e., housings), wood (e.g., sewing machines, stereo, television), manufacturing
Cork products (except gaskets) manufacturing
Kiln drying lumber
Shoe trees manufacturing
Wood dowels manufacturing
Wood extension ladders manufacturing
Wood handles (e.g., broom, handtool, mop), manufacturing
Wood kitchenware manufacturing
Wood stepladders manufacturing
Wood toilet seats manufacturing
Wood toothpicks manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating sawmills and preserving wood--are classified in Industry 32111, Sawmills and Wood
          Preservation;
      Manufacturing veneer and engineered wood products--are classified in Industry 32121, Veneer, Plywood,
          and Engineered Wood Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing millwork--are classified in Industry 32191, Millwork;
      Manufacturing boxes, box shook, wood containers, pallets, and wood parts for containers--are classified in
          Industry 321920, Wood Container and Pallet Manufacturing;
      Making manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes)--are classified in U.S. Industry 321991, Manufactured
          Home (Mobile Home) Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing prefabricated wood buildings or wood sections and panels for buildings--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 321992, Prefabricated Wood Building Manufacturing.

322       Paper Manufacturing    T



  Industries in the Paper Manufacturing subsector make pulp, paper, or converted paper products. The
manufacturing of these products is grouped together because they constitute a series of vertically connected
processes. More than one is often carried out in a single establishment. There are essentially three activities. The
manufacturing of pulp involves separating the cellulose fibers from other impurities in wood or used paper. The
manufacturing of paper involves matting these fibers into a sheet. Converted paper products are made from paper
and other materials by various cutting and shaping techniques and includes coating and laminating activities.
  The Paper Manufacturing subsector is subdivided into two industry groups, the first for the manufacturing of pulp
and paper and the second for the manufacturing of converted paper products. Paper making is treated as the core
activity of the subsector. Therefore, any establishment that makes paper (including paperboard), either alone or in
combination with pulp manufacturing or paper converting, is classified as a paper or paperboard mill.
Establishments that make pulp without making paper are classified as pulp mills. Pulp mills, paper mills and
paperboard mills comprise the first industry group.
  Establishments that make products from purchased paper and other materials make up the second industry group,
Converted Paper Product Manufacturing. This general activity is then subdivided based, for the most part, on
process distinctions. Paperboard container manufacturing uses corrugating, cutting, and shaping machinery to form
paperboard into containers. Paper bag and coated and treated paper manufacturing establishments cut and coat
paper and foil. Stationery product manufacturing establishments make a variety of paper products used for writing,
filing, and similar applications. Other converted paper product manufacturing includes, in particular, the conversion
of sanitary paper stock into such things as tissue paper and disposable diapers.
  An important process used in the Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing industry is lamination,
often combined with coating. Lamination and coating makes a composite material with improved properties of
strength, impermeability, and so on. The laminated materials may be paper, metal foil, or plastics film. While paper
is often one of the components, it is not always. Lamination of plastics film to plastics film is classified in the
NAICS Subsector 326, Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing, because establishments that do this often first

make the film. The same situation holds with respect to bags. The manufacturing of bags from plastics only,
whether or not laminated, is classified in Subsector 326, Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing, but all other
bag manufacturing is classified in this subsector.
 Excluded from this subsector are photosensitive papers. These papers are chemically treated and are classified in
Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing.

3221     Pulp, Paper, and Paperboard Mills      T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing pulp, paper, or paperboard.

32211    Pulp Mills T

         See industry description for 322110 below.

322110 Pulp Mills

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing pulp without manufacturing paper or
paperboard. The pulp is made by separating the cellulose fibers from the other impurities in wood or other
materials, such as used or recycled rags, linters, scrap paper, and straw.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing both pulp and paper--are classified in Industry 32212, Paper Mills; and
     Manufacturing both pulp and paperboard--are classified in Industry 322130, Paperboard Mills.

32212    Paper Mills T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing paper from pulp. These
establishments may manufacture or purchase pulp. In addition, the establishments may convert the paper they make.
The activity of making paper classifies an establishment into this industry regardless of the output.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing pulp without manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry 32211, Pulp Mills;
     Manufacturing paperboard--are classified in Industry 32213, Paperboard Mills;
     Converting paper without manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry Group 3222, Converted Paper
         Product Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing photographic sensitized paper--are classified in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product
         and Preparation Manufacturing.

322121 Paper (except Newsprint) Mills

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing paper (except newsprint and
uncoated groundwood paper) from pulp. These establishments may manufacture or purchase pulp. In addition, the
establishments may also convert the paper they make.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing newsprint and uncoated groundwood paper--are classified in U.S. Industry 322122,
         Newsprint Mills;
     Converting paper without manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry Group 3222, Converted Paper
         Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing paperboard--are classified in Industry 322130, Paperboard Mills;
     Manufacturing pulp without manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry 322110, Pulp Mills; and
     Manufacturing photographic sensitized paper from purchased paper--are classified in U.S. Industry 325992,
         Photographic Film, Paper, Plate, and Chemical Manufacturing.

322122 Newsprint Mills

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing newsprint and uncoated
groundwood paper from pulp. These establishments may manufacture or purchase pulp. In addition, the
establishments may also convert the paper they make.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing paper (except newsprint and uncoated groundwood)--are classified in U.S. Industry 322121,
         Paper (except Newsprint) Mills;
     Converting paper without manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry Group 3222, Converted Paper
         Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing paperboard--are classified in Industry 322130, Paperboard Mills; and
     Manufacturing pulp without manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry 322110, Pulp Mills.

32213    Paperboard Mills  T

         See industry description for 322130 below.

322130 Paperboard Mills

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing paperboard from pulp. These
establishments may manufacture or purchase pulp. In addition, the establishments may also convert the paperboard
they make.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing pulp without manufacturing paperboard--are classified in Industry 322110, Pulp Mills;
     Converting paperboard without manufacturing paperboard--are classified in Industry Group 3222,
         Converted Paper Product Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing insulation board and other reconstituted wood fiberboard--are classified in U.S. Industry
         321219, Reconstituted Wood Product Manufacturing.

3222     Converted Paper Product Manufacturing      T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting paper or paperboard without
manufacturing paper or paperboard.

32221    Paperboard Container Manufacturing      T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting paperboard into containers without
manufacturing paperboard. These establishments use corrugating, cutting, and shaping machinery to form
paperboard into containers. Products made by these establishments include boxes, corrugated sheets, pads, pallets,
paper dishes, and fiber drums, and reels.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing similar items of plastics materials--are classified in Industry Group 3261, Plastics Product
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing paperboard and converting paperboard into containers--are classified in Industry 32213,
         Paperboard Mills;
     Manufacturing egg cartons, food trays, and other food containers from molded pulp--are classified in
         Industry 32229, Other Converted Paper Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing paper and converting paper into containers--are classified in Industry 32212, Paper Mills;
         and

      Manufacturing paper bags without manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry 32222, Paper Bag and
          Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing.

322211 Corrugated and Solid Fiber Box Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in laminating purchased paper or paperboard into
corrugated or solid fiber boxes and related products, such as pads, partitions, pallets, and corrugated paper without
manufacturing paperboard. These boxes are generally used for shipping.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing setup paperboard boxes (except corrugated or laminated solid fiber boxes)--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 322219, Other Paperboard Container Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing folding paperboard boxes (except corrugated or laminated solid fiber boxes)--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 322212, Folding Paperboard Box Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing paperboard and converting paperboard into boxes--are classified in Industry 322130,
          Paperboard Mills.

322212 Folding Paperboard Box Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting paperboard (except corrugated) into
folding paperboard boxes without manufacturing paper and paperboard.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing setup paperboard boxes (except corrugated) or milk cartons--are classified in U.S. Industry
          322219, Other Paperboard Container Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing corrugated and solid fiber boxes--are classified in U.S. Industry 322211, Corrugated and
          Solid Fiber Box Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing paperboard and converting paperboard into containers--are classified in Industry 322130,
          Paperboard Mills;
      Manufacturing paper and converting paper into containers--are classified in Industry 32212, Paper Mills;
          and
      Manufacturing paper bags--are classified in Industry 322220, Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper
          Manufacturing.

322219 Other Paperboard Container Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting paperboard into paperboard
containers, (except corrugated, solid fiber, and folding paperboard boxes) without manufacturing paperboard.

Illustrative Examples:

Fiber cans and drums (i.e., all-fiber, nonfiber ends of any material) made from purchased paperboard
Sanitary food containers (except folding) made from purchased paper or paperboard
Setup (i.e., not shipped flat) boxes made from purchased paperboard

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing sanitary food containers of solely plastics materials--are classified in Industry Group 3261,
          Plastics Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing paperboard and converting paperboard into containers--are classified in Industry 322130,
          Paperboard Mills;
      Manufacturing corrugated and solid fiber boxes--are classified in U.S. Industry 322211, Corrugated and
          Solid Fiber Box Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing folding paperboard boxes (except corrugated)--are classified in U.S. Industry 322212,
          Folding Paperboard Box Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing egg cartons, food trays, and other food containers from molded pulp--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 322299, All Other Converted Paper Product Manufacturing.

32222     Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing          T

          See industry description for 322220 below.

322220 Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) cutting and coating
paper and paperboard; (2) cutting and laminating paper, paperboard, and other flexible materials (except plastics
film to plastics film); (3) manufacturing bags, multiwall bags, sacks of paper, metal foil, coated paper, laminates, or
coated combinations of paper and foil with plastics film; (4) manufacturing laminated aluminum and other converted
metal foils from purchased foils; and (5) surface coating paper or paperboard.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing paper from pulp--are classified in Industry 32212, Paper Mills;
      Manufacturing textile bags--are classified in Industry 314910, Textile Bag and Canvas Mills;
      Manufacturing single and multiwall plastics bags--are classified in U.S. Industry 326111, Plastics Bag and
          Pouch Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics to plastics packaging laminations--are classified in U.S. Industry 326112, Plastics
          Packaging Film and Sheet (including Laminated) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing unsupported plastic film--are classified in U.S. Industry 326113, Unlaminated Plastics Film
          and Sheet (except Packaging) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing photographic sensitized paper--are classified in U.S. Industry 325992, Photographic Film,
          Paper, Plate, and Chemical Manufacturing;
      Printing on purchased packaging materials--are classified in Industry 32311, Printing, based on printing
          process used;
      Manufacturing foil cookware, dinnerware, and other semi rigid metal containers--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 332999, All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing;
      Making aluminum and aluminum foil--are classified in Industry 33131, Alumina and Aluminum
          Production and Processing; and
      Cutting purchased aluminum foil into smaller lengths and widths--are classified in U.S. Industry 332999,
          All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing.

32223     Stationery Product Manufacturing       T

          See industry description for 322230 below.

322230 Stationery Product Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting paper or paperboard into products used
for writing, filing, art work, and similar applications.

Illustrative Examples:

Die-cut paper products for office use made from purchased paper or paperboard
Envelopes (i.e., mailing, stationery) made from any material
Stationery made from purchased paper
Tablets (e.g., memo, note, writing) made from purchased paper
Tapes (e.g., adding machines, calculator, cash register) made from purchased paper

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing die-cut paper and paperboard products other than office
supplies are classified in U.S. Industry 322299, All Other Converted Paper Product Manufacturing.

32229     Other Converted Paper Product Manufacturing         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) converting paper and paperboard into products
(except containers, bags, coated and treated paper and paperboard, and stationery products), or (2) converting pulp
into pulp products, such as disposable diapers, or molded pulp egg cartons, food trays, and dishes. Processes used
include laminating or lining purchased paper or paperboard.

Illustrative Examples:

Crepe paper made from purchased paper
Die-cut paper products (except for office use) made from purchased paper or paperboard
Molded pulp products (e.g., egg cartons, food containers, food trays) manufacturing
Paper novelties made from purchased paper
Sanitary products made from purchased sanitary paper stock

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing pulp from wood or from other materials--are classified in Industry 32211, Pulp Mills;
      Manufacturing paper from pulp or making pulp and manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry 32212,
          Paper Mills;
      Manufacturing paperboard from pulp or making pulp and manufacturing paperboard--are classified in
          Industry 32213, Paperboard Mills;
      Manufacturing paperboard containers--are classified in Industry 32221, Paperboard Container
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing bags of coated, laminated, or uncoated paper, of metal foil, or combinations thereof--are
          classified in Industry 32222, Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing stationery and other related office supplies--are classified in Industry 32223, Stationery
          Product Manufacturing.

322291 Sanitary Paper Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting purchased sanitary paper stock or
wadding into sanitary paper products, such as facial tissues, handkerchiefs, table napkins, toilet paper, towels,
disposable diapers, sanitary napkins, and tampons.

322299 All Other Converted Paper Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting paper or paperboard into products
(except containers, bags, coated and treated paper, stationery products, and sanitary paper products) or converting
pulp into pulp products, such as egg cartons, food trays, and other food containers from molded pulp.

Illustrative Examples:

Crepe paper made from purchased paper
Die-cut paper products (except for office use) made from purchased paper or paperboard
Molded pulp products (e.g., egg cartons, food containers, food trays) manufacturing
Paper novelties made from purchased paper

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing pulp from wood or from other materials--are classified in Industry 322110, Pulp Mills;

     Manufacturing paper from pulp or making pulp and manufacturing paper--are classified in Industry 32212,
         Paper Mills;
     Manufacturing paperboard from pulp or making pulp and manufacturing paperboard--are classified in
         Industry 322130, Paperboard Mills;
     Manufacturing paperboard containers--are classified in Industry 32221, Paperboard Container
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing bags of coated, laminated, or uncoated paper, of metal foil, or combinations thereof--are
         classified in Industry 322220, Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing stationery and other related office supplies--are classified in Industry 322230, Stationery
         Product Manufacturing.

323      Printing and Related Support Activities       T



  Industries in the Printing and Related Support Activities subsector print products, such as newspapers, books,
labels, business cards, stationery, business forms, and other materials, and perform support activities, such as data
imaging, platemaking services, and bookbinding. The support activities included here are an integral part of the
printing industry, and a product (a printing plate, a bound book, or a computer disk or file) that is an integral part of
the printing industry is almost always provided by these operations.
  Processes used in printing include a variety of methods used to transfer an image from a plate, screen, film, or
computer file to some medium, such as paper, plastics, metal, textile articles, or wood. The printing processes
employed include, but are not limited to, lithographic, gravure, screen, flexographic, digital, and letterpress.
  In contrast to many other classification systems that locate publishing of printed materials in manufacturing,
NAICS classifies the publishing of printed products in Subsector 511, Publishing Industries (except Internet).
Though printing and publishing are often carried out by the same enterprise (a newspaper, for example), it is less
and less the case that these distinct activities are carried out in the same establishment. When publishing and
printing are done in the same establishment, the establishment is classified in Sector 51, Information, in the
appropriate NAICS industry even if the receipts for printing exceed those for publishing.
  This subsector includes printing on clothing because the production process for that activity is printing, not
clothing manufacturing. For instance, the printing of T-shirts is included in this subsector. In contrast, printing on
fabric (or grey goods) is not included. This activity is part of the process of finishing the fabric and is included in
the NAICS Textile Mills subsector in Industry 31331, Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills.

3231     Printing and Related Support Activities       T



32311    Printing  T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in printing on apparel and textile products, paper, metal,
glass, plastics, and other materials, except fabric (grey goods). The printing processes employed include, but are not
limited to, lithographic, gravure, screen, flexographic, digital, and letterpress. Establishments in this industry do not
manufacture the stock that they print, but may perform postprinting activities, such as folding, cutting, or laminating
the materials they print, and mailing.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Providing photocopying service on nondigital photocopy equipment without performing traditional printing
         activities--are classified in Industry 56143, Business Service Centers;
     Printing on grey goods--are classified in Industry 31331, Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills;
     Printing and publishing, known as publishers--are classified in Subsector 511, Publishing Industries (except
         Internet); and
     Performing prepress or postpress services without performing traditional printing activities--are classified
         in Industry 32312, Support Activities for Printing.

323111 Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in commercial printing (except screen printing,
books printing) without publishing (except grey goods printing). Printing processes used in this industry include
lithographic, gravure, flexographic, letterpress, engraving, and various digital printing technologies. This industry
includes establishments engaged in commercial printing on purchased stock materials, such as stationery,
invitations, labels, and similar items, on a job order basis. Establishments primarily engaged in traditional printing
activities combined with document photocopying services (i.e., quick printers) or primarily engaged in printing
graphical materials using digital printing equipment are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Screen printing on purchased stock materials (except books, grey goods, and manifold business forms)--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 323113, Commercial Screen Printing;
     Printing on grey goods--are classified in Industry 313310, Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills;
     Printing books and pamphlets--are classified in U.S. Industry 323117, Books Printing;
     Manufacturing printed stationery, invitations, labels, and similar items--are classified in Subsector 322,
         Paper Manufacturing;
     Providing photocopying service on photocopy equipment without performing traditional printing activities-
         -are classified in U.S. Industry 561439, Other Business Service Centers (including Copy Shops); and
     Printing and publishing, known as publishers--are classified in Subsector 511, Publishing Industries (except
         Internet).

323113 Commercial Screen Printing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in screen printing without publishing (except
books, grey goods, and manifold business forms). This industry includes establishments engaged in screen printing
on purchased stock materials, such as stationery, invitations, labels, and similar items, on a job order basis.
Establishments primarily engaged in printing on apparel and textile products, such as T-shirts, caps, jackets, towels,
and napkins, are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Printing on grey goods--are classified in Industry 313310, Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills;
     Printing books and pamphlets--are classified in U.S. Industry 323117, Books Printing;
     Printing manifold business forms including checkbooks--are classified in U.S. Industry 323111,
         Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books);
     Manufacturing printed stationery, invitations, labels, and similar items--are classified in Subsector 322,
         Paper Manufacturing; and
     Printing and publishing, known as publishers--are classified in Subsector 511, Publishing Industries (except
         Internet).

323117 Books Printing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in printing or printing and binding books and
pamphlets without publishing.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Printing and publishing, known as publishers--are classified in Subsector 511, Publishing Industries (except
         Internet); and
     Binding books without printing in the same establishment--are classified in Industry 323120, Support
         Activities for Printing.

32312    Support Activities for Printing    T

         See industry description for 323120 below.

323120 Support Activities for Printing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing prepress and postpress services in
support of printing activities. Prepress services may include such things as platemaking, typesetting, tradebinding,
and sample mounting. Postpress services include such things as book or paper bronzing, die-cutting, edging,
embossing, folding, gilding, gluing, and indexing.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Engraving of the type done on metal--are classified in U.S. Industry 332812, Metal Coating, Engraving
         (except Jewelry and Silverware), and Allied Services to Manufacturers;
      Manufacturing photosensitive plates for printing--are classified in U.S. Industry 325992, Photographic
         Film, Paper, Plate, and Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing blank plates (except photosensitive plates) for printing--are classified in U.S. Industry
         333244, Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Printing books or printing and binding books--are classified in U.S. Industry 323117, Books Printing.

324      Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing         T



 The Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing subsector is based on the transformation of crude petroleum and
coal into usable products. The dominant process is petroleum refining that involves the separation of crude
petroleum into component products through such techniques as cracking and distillation.
 In addition, this subsector includes establishments that primarily further process refined petroleum and coal
products and produce products, such as asphalt coatings and petroleum lubricating oils. However, establishments
that manufacture petrochemicals from refined petroleum are classified in Industry 32511, Petrochemical
Manufacturing.

3241     Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing         T



32411    Petroleum Refineries   T

         See industry description for 324110 below.

324110 Petroleum Refineries

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in refining crude petroleum into refined petroleum.
Petroleum refining involves one or more of the following activities: (1) fractionation; (2) straight distillation of
crude oil; and (3) cracking.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing asphalt paving, roofing, and saturated materials from refined petroleum--are classified in
         Industry 32412, Asphalt Paving, Roofing, and Saturated Materials Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing paper mats and felts and saturating them with asphalt or tar into rolls and sheets--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 322121, Paper (except Newsprint) Mills;
      Blending or compounding refined petroleum to make lubricating oils and greases and/or re-refining used
         petroleum lubricating oils--are classified in U.S. Industry 324191, Petroleum Lubricating Oil and Grease
         Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing synthetic lubricating oils and greases--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other
         Miscellaneous Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing;
      Recovering natural gasoline and/or liquid hydrocarbons from oil and gas field gases--are classified in
         Industry 21111, Oil and Gas Extraction;
      Manufacturing acyclic and cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (i.e., petrochemicals) from refined petroleum or
         liquid hydrocarbons--are classified in Industry 325110, Petrochemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cyclic and acyclic chemicals (except petrochemicals)--are classified in Industry 32519,
         Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing coke oven products in steel mills--are classified in Industry 331110, Iron and Steel Mills
          and Ferroalloy Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing coke oven products in coke oven establishments--are classified in U.S. Industry 324199, All
          Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing.

32412     Asphalt Paving, Roofing, and Saturated Materials Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing asphalt and tar paving mixtures
and blocks and roofing cements and coatings from purchased asphaltic materials and/or (2) saturating purchased
mats and felts with asphalt or tar from purchased asphaltic materials.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Refining crude petroleum and manufacturing asphalt and tar paving, roofing, and saturated materials--are
          classified in Industry 32411, Petroleum Refineries; and
      Manufacturing paper mats and felts and saturating them with asphalt or tar--are classified in Industry
          32212, Paper Mills.

324121 Asphalt Paving Mixture and Block Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing asphalt and tar paving mixtures
and blocks from purchased asphaltic materials.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in refining crude petroleum and manufacturing asphalt and tar paving mixtures
and blocks are classified in Industry 324110, Petroleum Refineries.

324122 Asphalt Shingle and Coating Materials Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) saturating purchased mats and felts with
asphalt or tar from purchased asphaltic materials and (2) manufacturing asphalt and tar and roofing cements and
coatings from purchased asphaltic materials.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Refining crude petroleum and saturating purchased mats and felts with asphalt or tar into rolls and sheets
          and/or refining crude petroleum and manufacturing asphalt and tar roofing cements and coatings--are
          classified in Industry 324110, Petroleum Refineries; and
      Manufacturing paper mats and felts and saturating them with asphalt or tar into rolls and sheets--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 322121, Paper (except Newsprint) Mills.

32419     Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing petroleum products (except asphalt
paving, roofing and saturated materials) from refined petroleum or coal products made in coke ovens not integrated
with a steel mill.

Illustrative Examples:

Coke oven products (e.g., coke, gases, tars) made in coke oven establishments
Petroleum brake fluids made from refined petroleum
Petroleum briquettes made from refined petroleum
Petroleum jelly made from refined petroleum
Petroleum lubricating oils and greases made from refined petroleum

Petroleum waxes made from refined petroleum
Re-refined used petroleum lubricating oils

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing petroleum products by refining crude petroleum--are classified in Industry 32411,
          Petroleum Refineries;
      Manufacturing asphalt and tar paving, roofing, and saturated materials from refined petroleum--are
          classified in Industry 32412, Asphalt Paving, Roofing, and Saturated Materials Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coke oven products in steel mills--are classified in Industry 33111, Iron and Steel Mills and
          Ferroalloy Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing acyclic and cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (i.e., petrochemicals) from refined petroleum or
          liquid hydrocarbons--are classified in Industry 32511, Petrochemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cyclic and acyclic organic chemicals (except petrochemicals)--are classified in Industry
          32519, Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing synthetic lubricating oils and greases--are classified in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical
          Product and Preparation Manufacturing.

324191 Petroleum Lubricating Oil and Grease Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in blending or compounding refined petroleum to
make lubricating oils and greases and/or re-refining used petroleum lubricating oils.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Refining crude petroleum and manufacturing lubricating oils and greases--are classified in Industry
          324110, Petroleum Refineries; and
      Manufacturing synthetic lubricating oils and greases--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other
          Miscellaneous Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing.

324199 All Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing petroleum products (except
asphalt paving, roofing, and saturated materials and lubricating oils and greases) from refined petroleum and coal
products made in coke ovens not integrated with a steel mill.

Illustrative Examples:

Coke oven products (e.g., coke, gases, tars) made in coke oven establishments
Petroleum briquettes made from refined petroleum
Petroleum jelly made from refined petroleum
Petroleum waxes made from refined petroleum

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing petroleum products by refining crude petroleum--are classified in Industry 324110,
          Petroleum Refineries;
      Manufacturing asphalt paving and roofing materials from refined petroleum--are classified in Industry
          32412, Asphalt Paving, Roofing, and Saturated Materials Manufacturing;
      Blending and compounding petroleum lubricating oils and greases and/or re-refining used petroleum
          lubrication oils and greases--are classified in U.S. Industry 324191, Petroleum Lubricating Oil and Grease
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coke oven products in steel mills--are classified in Industry 331110, Iron and Steel Mills
          and Ferroalloy Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing acyclic and cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (i.e., petrochemicals) from refined petroleum or
          liquid hydrocarbons--are classified in Industry 325110, Petrochemical Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing cyclic and acyclic organic chemicals (except petrochemicals)--are classified in Industry
          32519, Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing.

325       Chemical Manufacturing      T



 The Chemical Manufacturing subsector is based on the transformation of organic and inorganic raw materials by a
chemical process and the formulation of products. This subsector distinguishes the production of basic chemicals
that comprise the first industry group from the production of intermediate and end products produced by further
processing of basic chemicals that make up the remaining industry groups.
 This subsector does not include all industries transforming raw materials by a chemical process. It is common for
some chemical processing to occur during mining operations. These beneficiating operations, such as copper
concentrating, are classified in Sector 21, Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction. Furthermore, the refining
of crude petroleum is included in Subsector 324, Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing. In addition, the
manufacturing of aluminum oxide is included in Subsector 331, Primary Metal Manufacturing; and beverage
distilleries are classified in Subsector 312, Beverage and Tobacco Product Manufacturing. As is the case of these
two activities, the grouping of industries into subsectors may take into account the association of the activities
performed with other activities in the subsector.

3251      Basic Chemical Manufacturing       T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing chemicals using basic
processes, such as thermal cracking and distillation. Chemicals manufactured in this industry group are usually
separate chemical elements or separate chemically-defined compounds.

32511     Petrochemical Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 325110 below.

325110 Petrochemical Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing acyclic (i.e., aliphatic)
hydrocarbons such as ethylene, propylene, and butylene made from refined petroleum or liquid hydrocarbons and/or
(2) manufacturing cyclic aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene, toluene, styrene, xylene, ethyl benzene, and
cumene made from refined petroleum or liquid hydrocarbons.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing petrochemicals by refining crude petroleum--are classified in Industry 324110, Petroleum
          Refineries;
      Manufacturing acetylene--are classified in Industry 325120, Industrial Gas Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing basic organic chemicals (except petrochemicals)--are classified in Industry 32519, Other
          Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing; and
      Recovering liquid hydrocarbons from oil and gas field gases--are classified in Industry 21111, Oil and Gas
          Extraction.

32512     Industrial Gas Manufacturing     T

          See industry description for 325120 below.

325120 Industrial Gas Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing industrial organic and inorganic gases
in compressed, liquid, and solid forms.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing chlorine gas--are classified in Industry 325180, Other Basic Inorganic Chemical
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing ethane and butane gases made from refined petroleum or liquid hydrocarbons--are classified
          in Industry 325110, Petrochemical Manufacturing.

32513     Synthetic Dye and Pigment Manufacturing     T

          See industry description for 325130 below.

325130 Synthetic Dye and Pigment Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing synthetic organic and inorganic dyes
and pigments, such as lakes and toners (except electrostatic and photographic).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing natural food colorings--are classified in Industry 311930, Flavoring Syrup and Concentrate
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing natural organic colorings for nonfood uses (except wood byproducts)--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 325199, All Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electrostatic and photographic toners--are classified in U.S. Industry 325992, Photographic
          Film, Paper, Plate, and Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing wood byproducts used as dyeing materials--are classified in U.S. Industry 325194, Cyclic
          Crude, Intermediate, and Gum and Wood Chemical Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing carbon, bone, and lamp black--are classified in Industry 325180, Other Basic Inorganic
          Chemical Manufacturing.

32518     Other Basic Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing       T

          See industry description for 325180 below.

325180 Other Basic Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing basic inorganic chemicals (except
industrial gases and synthetic dyes and pigments).

Illustrative Examples:

Alkalies manufacturing
Aluminum compounds, not specified elsewhere by process, manufacturing
Carbides (e.g., baron, calcium, silium, tungsten) manufacturing
Carbon black manufacturing
Chlorine manufacturing
Hydrochloric acid manufacturing
Potassium inorganic compounds, not specified elsewhere by process, manufacturing
Radioactive isotopes manufacturing
Sulfides and sulfites manufacturing
Sulfuric acid manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing industrial gases--are classified in Industry 325120, Industrial Gas Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing inorganic dyes and pigments--are classified in Industry 325130, Synthetic Dye and Pigment
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household bleaches--are classified in U.S. Industry 325612, Polish and Other Sanitation
          Good Manufacturing;

      Mining and/or beneficiating alkalies--are classified in U.S. Industry 212391, Potash, Soda, and Borate
          Mineral Mining;
      Manufacturing chlorine preparations (e.g., for swimming pools)--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All
          Other Miscellaneous Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing nitrogenous and phosphoric fertilizers and fertilizer materials--are classified in Industry
          32531, Fertilizer Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing aluminum oxide (alumina)--are classified in U.S. Industry 331313, Alumina Refining and
          Primary Aluminum Production;
      Manufacturing inorganic insecticidal, herbicidal, fungicidal and pesticidal preparations--are classified in
          Industry 325320, Pesticide and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing photographic chemicals--are classified in U.S. Industry 325992, Photographic Film, Paper,
          Plate, and Chemical Manufacturing.

32519     Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing basic organic chemicals (except
petrochemicals, industrial gases, and synthetic dyes and pigments).

Illustrative Examples:

Carbon organic compounds, not specified elsewhere by process, manufacturing
Cyclic intermediates made from refined petroleum or natural gas
Enzyme proteins (i.e., basic synthetic chemicals) (except pharmaceutical use) manufacturing
Fatty acids (e.g., margaric, oleic, stearic) manufacturing
Gum and wood chemicals manufacturing
Organo-inorganic compound manufacturing
Plasticizers (i.e., basic synthetic chemical) manufacturing
Silicone (except resins) manufacturing
Synthetic sweeteners (i.e., sweetening agents) manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing petrochemicals from refined petroleum or liquid hydrocarbons--are classified in Industry
          32511, Petrochemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing petrochemicals by refining crude petroleum--are classified in Industry 32411, Petroleum
          Refineries;
      Manufacturing organic industrial gases--are classified in Industry 32512, Industrial Gas Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing synthetic organic dyes and pigments--are classified in Industry 32513, Synthetic Dye and
          Pigment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing natural glycerin--are classified in Industry 32561, Soap and Cleaning Compound
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing activated charcoal--are classified in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product and
          Preparation Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing organic insecticidal, herbicidal, fungicidal, and pesticidal preparations--are classified in
          Industry 32532, Pesticide and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing elastomers--are classified in Industry 32521, Resin and Synthetic Rubber Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing urea--are classified in Industry 32531, Fertilizer Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coal tar crudes in integrated steel mills with coke ovens--are classified in Industry 33111,
          Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coal tar crudes in coke ovens not integrated with steel mills and fuel briquettes from refined
          petroleum--are classified in Industry 32419, Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing natural food colorings--are classified in Industry 31194, Seasoning and Dressing
          Manufacturing.

325193 Ethyl Alcohol Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonpotable ethyl alcohol.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Distilling liquors (except brandy)--are classified in Industry 312140, Distilleries; and
      Manufacturing brandies--are classified in Industry 312130, Wineries.

325194 Cyclic Crude, Intermediate, and Gum and Wood Chemical Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) distilling
wood or gum into products, such as tall oil and wood distillates; (2) distilling coal tars; (3) manufacturing wood or
gum chemicals, such as naval stores, natural tanning materials, charcoal briquettes, and charcoal (expect activated);
and (4) manufacturing cyclic crudes or cyclic intermediates (i.e., hydrocarbons, except aromatic petrochemicals)
from refined petroleum or natural gas.

Cross-references.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing cyclic chemicals (except aromatic and intermediates)--are classified in U.S. Industry
          325199, All Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing aromatic petrochemicals from refined petroleum or natural gas--are classified in Industry
          325110, Petrochemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing aromatic petrochemicals by refining crude petroleum--are classified in Industry 324110,
          Petroleum Refineries;
      Manufacturing coal tar crudes in steel mills with coke ovens--are classified in Industry 331110, Iron and
          Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing fuel briquettes from refined petroleum--are classified in U.S. Industry 324199, All Other
          Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing activated charcoal--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other Miscellaneous
          Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing.

325199 All Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing basic organic chemical products
(except aromatic petrochemicals, industrial gases, synthetic organic dyes and pigments, gum and wood chemicals,
cyclic crudes and intermediates, and ethyl alcohol).

Illustrative Examples:

Calcium organic compounds, not specified elsewhere by process, manufacturing
Carbon organic compounds, not specified elsewhere by process, manufacturing
Enzyme proteins (i.e., basic synthetic chemicals) (except pharmaceutical use) manufacturing
Fatty acids (e.g., margaric, oleic, stearic) manufacturing
Organo-inorganic compound manufacturing
Plasticizers (i.e., basic synthetic chemical) manufacturing
Silicone (except resins) manufacturing
Synthetic sweeteners (i.e., sweetening agents) manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing aromatic petrochemicals from refined petroleum or natural gas--are classified in Industry
          325110, Petrochemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing aromatic petrochemicals by refining crude petroleum--are classified in Industry 324110,
          Petroleum Refineries;
      Manufacturing organic industrial gases--are classified in Industry 325120, Industrial Gas Manufacturing;

     Manufacturing synthetic organic dyes and pigments--are classified in Industry 325130, Synthetic Dye and
         Pigment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing ethyl alcohol--are classified in U.S. Industry 325193, Ethyl Alcohol Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing organic insecticidal, herbicidal, fungicidal, and pesticidal preparations--are classified in
         Industry 325320, Pesticide and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing elastomers--are classified in Industry 32521, Resin and Synthetic Rubber Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing urea--are classified in U.S. Industry 325311, Nitrogenous Fertilizer Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing natural glycerin--are classified in U.S. Industry 325611, Soap and Other Detergent
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing natural food colorings--are classified in U.S. Industry 311942, Spice and Extract
         Manufacturing.

3252     Resin, Synthetic Rubber, and Artificial Synthetic Fibers and Filaments Manufacturing        T



32521    Resin and Synthetic Rubber Manufacturing        T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
synthetic resins, plastics materials, and nonvulcanizable elastomers and mixing and blending resins on a custom
basis; (2) manufacturing noncustomized synthetic resins; and (3) manufacturing synthetic rubber.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing plastics resins and converting resins into plastics products--are classified in Industry Group
         3261, Plastics Product Manufacturing;
     Processing natural, synthetic, or reclaimed rubber into intermediate or final products--are classified in
         Industry Group 3262, Rubber Product Manufacturing;
     Custom compounding resins made elsewhere--are classified in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product
         and Preparation Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing resin adhesives--are classified in Industry 32552, Adhesive Manufacturing.

325211 Plastics Material and Resin Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing resins, plastics materials, and
nonvulcanizable thermoplastic elastomers and mixing and blending resins on a custom basis and/or (2)
manufacturing noncustomized synthetic resins.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing plastics resins and converting the resins into plastics products--are classified in Industry
         Group 3261, Plastics Product Manufacturing;
     Custom compounding resins made elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry 325991, Custom
         Compounding of Purchased Resins; and
     Manufacturing plastics adhesives--are classified in Industry 325520, Adhesive Manufacturing.

325212 Synthetic Rubber Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry consists of establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing synthetic rubber.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Processing natural, synthetic, or reclaimed rubber into intermediate or final products (except adhesives)--
         are classified in Industry Group 3262, Rubber Product Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing rubber adhesives--are classified in Industry 325520, Adhesive Manufacturing.

32522    Artificial and Synthetic Fibers and Filaments Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 325220 below.

325220 Artificial and Synthetic Fibers and Filaments Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing cellulosic (e.g., rayon, acetate) and
noncellulosic (e.g., nylon, polyolefin, polyester) fibers and filaments in the form of monofilament, filament yarn,
staple, or tow or (2) manufacturing and texturing cellulosic and noncellulosic fibers and filaments.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Texturizing cellulosic and noncellulosic fiber and filament made elsewhere--are classified in Industry
          313110, Fiber, Yarn, and Thread Mills; and
      Manufacturing textile glass fibers--are classified in U.S. Industry 327212, Other Pressed and Blown Glass
          and Glassware Manufacturing.

3253      Pesticide, Fertilizer, and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing         T



32531     Fertilizer Manufacturing   T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
nitrogenous or phosphatic fertilizer materials; (2) manufacturing fertilizers from sewage or animal waste; (3)
manufacturing nitrogenous or phosphatic materials and mixing with other ingredients into fertilizers; and (4) mixing
ingredients made elsewhere into fertilizers.

325311 Nitrogenous Fertilizer Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
nitrogenous fertilizer materials and mixing ingredients into fertilizers; (2) manufacturing fertilizers from sewage or
animal waste; and (3) manufacturing nitrogenous materials and mixing them into fertilizers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in mixing ingredients made elsewhere into nitrogenous fertilizers are classified
in U.S. Industry 325314, Fertilizer (Mixing Only) Manufacturing.

325312 Phosphatic Fertilizer Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing phosphatic fertilizer materials
or (2) manufacturing phosphatic materials and mixing them into fertilizers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in mixing ingredients made elsewhere into phosphatic fertilizers are classified
in U.S. Industry 325314, Fertilizer (Mixing Only) Manufacturing.

325314 Fertilizer (Mixing Only) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in mixing ingredients made elsewhere into
fertilizers.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing nitrogenous fertilizer materials or fertilizer materials from sewage or animal waste and
          mixing these ingredients into nitrogenous fertilizers--are classified in U.S. Industry 325311, Nitrogenous
          Fertilizer Manufacturing; and

     Manufacturing phosphatic fertilizer materials and mixing ingredients into fertilizers--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 325312, Phosphatic Fertilizer Manufacturing.

32532    Pesticide and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing         T

         See industry description for 325320 below.

325320 Pesticide and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the formulation and preparation of agricultural and
household pest control chemicals (except fertilizers).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing basic chemicals requiring further processing before use as agriculture chemicals--are
         classified in Industry Group 3251, Basic Chemical Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing fertilizers--are classified in Industry 32531, Fertilizer Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing agricultural lime products--are classified in Industry 327410, Lime Manufacturing.

3254     Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing          T



32541    Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
biological and medicinal products; (2) processing (i.e., grading, grinding, and milling) botanical drugs and herbs; (3)
isolating active medicinal principals from botanical drugs and herbs; and (4) manufacturing pharmaceutical products
intended for internal and external consumption in such forms as ampoules, tablets, capsules, vials, ointments,
powders, solutions, and suspensions.

325411 Medicinal and Botanical Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing uncompounded medicinal
chemicals and their derivatives (i.e., generally for use by pharmaceutical preparation manufacturers) and/or (2)
grading, grinding, and milling uncompounded botanicals.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing packaged compounded medicinals and botanicals--are classified in U.S. Industry 325412,
         Pharmaceutical Preparation Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing vaccines, toxoids, blood fractions, and culture media of plant or animal origin (except for
         diagnostic use)--are classified in U.S. Industry 325414, Biological Product (except Diagnostic)
         Manufacturing.

325412 Pharmaceutical Preparation Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing in-vivo diagnostic substances
and pharmaceutical preparations (except biological) intended for internal and external consumption in dose forms,
such as ampoules, tablets, capsules, vials, ointments, powders, solutions, and suspensions.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing uncompounded medicinal chemicals and their derivatives--are classified in U.S. Industry
         325411, Medicinal and Botanical Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing in-vitro diagnostic substances--are classified in U.S. Industry 325413, In-Vitro Diagnostic
         Substance Manufacturing; and

     Manufacturing vaccines, toxoids, blood fractions, and culture media of plant or animal origin (except for
         diagnostic use)--are classified in U.S. Industry 325414, Biological Product (except Diagnostic)
         Manufacturing.

325413 In-Vitro Diagnostic Substance Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing in-vitro (i.e., not taken
internally) diagnostic substances, such as chemical, biological, or radioactive substances. The substances are used
for diagnostic tests that are performed in test tubes, petri dishes, machines, and other diagnostic test-type devices.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing in-vivo diagnostic substances are classified in U.S. Industry
325412, Pharmaceutical Preparation Manufacturing.

325414 Biological Product (except Diagnostic) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing vaccines, toxoids, blood
fractions, and culture media of plant or animal origin (except diagnostic).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing in-vitro diagnostic substances--are classified in U.S. Industry 325413, In-Vitro Diagnostic
         Substance Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing pharmaceutical preparations (except biological and in-vitro diagnostic substances)--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 325412, Pharmaceutical Preparation Manufacturing.

3255     Paint, Coating, and Adhesive Manufacturing         T



32551    Paint and Coating Manufacturing        T

         See industry description for 325510 below.

325510 Paint and Coating Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) mixing pigments, solvents, and binders into
paints and other coatings, such as stains, varnishes, lacquers, enamels, shellacs, and water repellant coatings for
concrete and masonry, and/or (2) manufacturing allied paint products, such as putties, paint and varnish removers,
paint brush cleaners, and frit.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing creosote--are classified in Industry 32519, Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing caulking compounds and sealants--are classified in Industry 325520, Adhesive
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing artists' paints--are classified in Industry 339940, Office Supplies (except Paper)
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing turpentine--are classified in U.S. Industry 325194, Cyclic Crude, Intermediate, and Gum
         and Wood Chemical Manufacturing.

32552    Adhesive Manufacturing      T

         See industry description for 325520 below.

325520 Adhesive Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing adhesives, glues, and caulking
compounds.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing asphalt and tar roofing cements from purchased asphaltic materials--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 324122, Asphalt Shingle and Coating Materials Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing gypsum based caulking compounds--are classified in Industry 327420, Gypsum Product
         Manufacturing.

3256     Soap, Cleaning Compound, and Toilet Preparation Manufacturing           T



32561    Soap and Cleaning Compound Manufacturing           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and packaging soap and other
cleaning compounds, surface active agents, and textile and leather finishing agents used to reduce tension or speed
the drying process.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing synthetic glycerin--are classified in Industry 32519, Other Basic Organic Chemical
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing industrial bleaches--are classified in Industry 32518, Other Basic Inorganic Chemical
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing shampoos and shaving preparations--are classified in Industry 32562, Toilet Preparation
         Manufacturing.

325611 Soap and Other Detergent Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and packaging soaps and other
detergents, such as laundry detergents; dishwashing detergents; toothpaste gels, and tooth powders; and natural
glycerin.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing synthetic glycerin--are classified in U.S. Industry 325199, All Other Basic Organic
         Chemical Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing shampoos and shaving preparations--are classified in Industry 325620, Toilet Preparation
         Manufacturing.

325612 Polish and Other Sanitation Good Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and packaging polishes and
specialty cleaning preparations.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing chlorine dioxide (i.e., industrial bleaching agent) are classified
in Industry 325180, Other Basic Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing.

325613 Surface Active Agent Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing bulk surface active agents for
use as wetting agents, emulsifiers, and penetrants, and/or (2) manufacturing textiles and leather finishing agents used
to reduce tension or speed the drying process.

32562     Toilet Preparation Manufacturing     T

          See industry description for 325620 below.

325620 Toilet Preparation Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in preparing, blending, compounding, and packaging
toilet preparations, such as perfumes, shaving preparations, hair preparations, face creams, lotions (including
sunscreens), and other cosmetic preparations.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing toothpaste are classified in U.S. Industry 325611, Soap and
Other Detergent Manufacturing.

3259      Other Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing          T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing chemical products (except basic
chemicals; resins, synthetic rubber, cellulosic and noncellulosic fibers and filaments; pesticides, fertilizers, and other
agricultural chemicals; pharmaceuticals and medicines; paints, coatings, and adhesives; soaps and cleaning
compounds; and toilet preparations).

32591     Printing Ink Manufacturing    T

          See industry description for 325910 below.

325910 Printing Ink Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing printing and inkjet inks and inkjet
cartridges.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Recycling inkjet cartridges--are classified in U.S. Industry 811212, Computer and Office Machine Repair
          and Maintenance;
      Manufacturing writing, drawing, and stamping ink--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other
          Miscellaneous Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing toners and toner cartridges for photocopiers, fax machines, computer printers, and similar
          office machines--are classified in U.S. Industry 325992, Photographic Film, Paper, Plate, and Chemical
          Manufacturing.

32592     Explosives Manufacturing    T

          See industry description for 325920 below.

325920 Explosives Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing explosives.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing ammunition, ammunition detonators, and percussion caps--are classified in U.S. Industry
          332992, Small Arms Ammunition Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing pyrotechnics--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other Miscellaneous Chemical
          Product and Preparation Manufacturing.

32599     All Other Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing          T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing chemical products (except basic
chemicals, resins, and synthetic rubber; cellulosic and noncellulosic fibers and filaments; pesticides, fertilizers, and
other agricultural chemicals; pharmaceuticals and medicines; paints, coatings, and adhesives; and soaps, cleaning
compounds, and toilet preparations; printing inks; and explosives).

Illustrative Examples:

Activated carbon and charcoal manufacturing
Antifreeze preparations manufacturing
Custom compounding (i.e., blending and mixing) of purchased plastics resins
Industrial salt manufacturing
Matches and matchbook manufacturing
Photographic chemicals manufacturing
Pyrotechnics (e.g., flares, flashlight bombs, signals) manufacturing
Sugar substitutes (i.e., synthetic sweeteners blended with other ingredients) made from purchased synthetic
sweeteners
Swimming pool chemical preparations manufacturing
Writing inks and fluids manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing basic chemicals--are classified in Industry Group 3251, Basic Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing resins, synthetic rubber, and artificial synthetic fibers and filaments--are classified in
          Industry Group 3252, Resin, Synthetic Rubber, and Artificial Synthetic Fibers and Filaments
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing pesticides, fertilizers, and other agricultural chemicals--are classified in Industry Group
          3253, Pesticide, Fertilizer, and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing pharmaceuticals and medicine including medicinal vegetable gelatin (i.e., agar-agar)--are
          classified in Industry Group 3254, Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing paints, coatings, and adhesives--are classified in Industry Group 3255, Paint, Coating, and
          Adhesive Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing soaps and cleaning compounds--are classified in Industry Group 3256, Soap, Cleaning
          Compound, and Toilet Preparation Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing printing and inkjet inks--are classified in Industry 32591, Printing Ink Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing explosives--are classified in Industry 32592, Explosives Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing photographic paper stock (i.e., unsensitized) and paper mats, mounts, easels, and folders for
          photographic use--are classified in Subsector 322, Paper Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing dessert gelatins--are classified in Industry 31199, All Other Food Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing medicinal gelatins--are classified in Industry 32541, Pharmaceutical and Medicine
          Manufacturing.

325991 Custom Compounding of Purchased Resins

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) custom mixing and blending plastics resins
made elsewhere or (2) reformulating plastics resins from recycled plastics products.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing synthetic resins and custom mixing and blending resins are
classified in U.S. Industry 325211, Plastics Material and Resin Manufacturing.

325992 Photographic Film, Paper, Plate, and Chemical Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing sensitized film, sensitized paper,
sensitized cloth, sensitized plates, toners (i.e., for photocopiers, laser printers, and similar electrostatic printing
devices), toner cartridges, and photographic chemicals.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing photographic paper stock (i.e., unsensitized) and paper mats,
mounts, easels, and folders for photographic use are classified in Subsector 322, Paper Manufacturing.

325998 All Other Miscellaneous Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing chemical products (except basic
chemicals, resins, synthetic rubber; cellulosic and noncellulosic fiber and filaments; pesticides, fertilizers, and other
agricultural chemicals; pharmaceuticals and medicines; paints, coatings and adhesives; soap, cleaning compounds,
and toilet preparations; printing inks; explosives; custom compounding of purchased resins; and photographic films,
papers, plates, and chemicals).

Illustrative Examples:

Activated carbon and charcoal manufacturing
Antifreeze preparations manufacturing
Industrial salt manufacturing
Lighter fluids (e.g., charcoal, cigarette) manufacturing
Matches and matchbook manufacturing
Pyrotechnics (e.g., flares, flashlight bombs, signals) manufacturing
Sugar substitutes (i.e., synthetic sweeteners blended with other ingredients) made from purchased synthetic
sweeteners manufacturing
Swimming pool chemical preparations manufacturing
Writing inks manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing basic chemicals--are classified in Industry Group 3251, Basic Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing resins, synthetic rubber, and artificial synthetic fibers and filaments--are classified in
          Industry Group 3252, Resin, Synthetic Rubber, and Artificial Synthetic Fibers and Filaments
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing pesticides, fertilizers, and other agricultural chemicals--are classified in Industry Group
          3253, Pesticide, Fertilizer, and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing pharmaceuticals and medicines including medicinal vegetable gelatin (i.e., agar-agar)--are
          classified in Industry Group 3254, Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing paints, coatings, and adhesives--are classified in Industry Group 3255, Paint, Coating, and
          Adhesive Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing soaps and cleaning compounds--are classified in Industry Group 3256, Soap, Cleaning
          Compound, and Toilet Preparation Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing printing and inkjet inks--are classified in Industry 325910, Printing Ink Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing explosives--are classified in Industry 325920, Explosives Manufacturing;
      Custom compounding purchased plastics resins--are classified in U.S. Industry 325991, Custom
          Compounding of Purchased Resins;
      Manufacturing photographic films, papers, plates, and chemicals--are classified in U.S. Industry 325992,
          Photographic Film, Paper, Plate, and Chemical Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing dessert gelatin--are classified in U.S. Industry 311999, All Other Miscellaneous Food
          Manufacturing.

326       Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing         T

 Industries in the Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing subsector make goods by processing plastics
materials and raw rubber. The core technology employed by establishments in this subsector is that of plastics or
rubber product production. Plastics and rubber are combined in the same subsector because plastics are increasingly
being used as a substitute for rubber; however the subsector is generally restricted to the production of products
made of just one material, either solely plastics or rubber.
 Many manufacturing activities use plastics or rubber, for example the manufacture of footwear, or furniture.
Typically, the production process of these products involves more than one material. In these cases, technologies
that allow disparate materials to be formed and combined are of central importance in describing the manufacturing
activity. In NAICS, such activities (the footwear and furniture manufacturing) are not classified in the Plastics and
Rubber Products Manufacturing subsector because the core technologies for these activities are diverse and involve
multiple materials.
 Within the Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing subsector, a distinction is made between plastics and
rubber products at the industry group level, although it is not a rigid distinction, as can be seen from the definition of
Industry 32622, Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting Manufacturing. As materials technology progresses, plastics
are increasingly being used as a substitute for rubber; and eventually, the distinction may disappear as a basis for
establishment classification.
 In keeping with the core technology focus of plastics, lamination of plastics film to plastics film as well as the
production of bags from plastics only is classified in this subsector. Lamination and bag production involving
plastics and materials other than plastics are classified in the NAICS Subsector 322, Paper Manufacturing.

3261      Plastics Product Manufacturing      T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in processing new or spent (i.e., recycled)
plastics resins into intermediate or final products, using such processes as compression molding; extrusion molding;
injection molding; blow molding; and casting. Within most of these industries, the production process is such that a
wide variety of products can be made.

32611     Plastics Packaging Materials and Unlaminated Film and Sheet Manufacturing              T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) converting plastics resins into unsupported
plastics film and sheet and/or (2) forming, coating or laminating plastics film and sheet into plastics bags.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Laminating plastics sheet (except for packaging)--are classified in Industry 32613, Laminated Plastics
          Plate, Sheet (except Packaging), and Shape Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics blister and bubble packaging--are classified in Industry 32619, Other Plastics
          Product Manufacturing; and
      Coating or laminating combinations of plastics, foils and paper (except plastics film to plastics film) into
          film, sheet or bags--are classified in Industry 32222, Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper
          Manufacturing.

326111 Plastics Bag and Pouch Manufacturing

 This U.S. Industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in: (1) converting plastics resins into plastics bags
or pouches, and/or (2) forming, coating, or laminating plastics film or sheet into single web or multi-web plastics
bags or pouches. Establishments in this industry may print on the bags or pouches they manufacture.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing laminated or coated combinations of plastics, foils, and paper (except plastics film to
          plastics film) materials into single wall or multiwall bags--are classified in Industry 322220, Paper Bag and
          Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing; and
      Printing on purchased packaging materials--are classified in Industry Group 3231, Printing and Related
          Support Activities, based on the printing process used.

326112 Plastics Packaging Film and Sheet (including Laminated) Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting plastics resins into plastics
packaging (flexible) film and packaging sheet.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Converting plastics resins into plastics film and unlaminated sheet (except packaging)--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 326113, Unlaminated Plastics Film and Sheet (except Packaging) Manufacturing;
     Laminating or coating combinations of plastics, foils, and paper (except plastics film to plastics film) film
         and sheet--are classified in Industry 322220, Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing;
     Laminating plastics sheet (except for packaging)--are classified in Industry 326130, Laminated Plastics
         Plate, Sheet (except Packaging), and Shape Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing plastics bags--are classified in U.S. Industry 326111, Plastics Bag and Pouch
         Manufacturing.

326113 Unlaminated Plastics Film and Sheet (except Packaging) Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting plastics resins into plastics film and
unlaminated sheet (except packaging).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Converting plastics resins into plastics packaging film and unlaminated packaging sheet--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 326112, Plastics Packaging Film and Sheet (including Laminated) Manufacturing;
     Laminating plastics sheet (except for packaging)--are classified in Industry 326130, Laminated Plastics
         Plate, Sheet (except Packaging), and Shape Manufacturing;
     Laminating or coating a combination of plastics, foils, and paper (except plastics film to plastics film) film
         and sheet, packaging or nonpackaging--are classified in Industry 322220, Paper Bag and Coated and
         Treated Paper Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing plastics bags--are classified in U.S. Industry 326111, Plastics Bag and Pouch
         Manufacturing.

32612    Plastics Pipe, Pipe Fitting, and Unlaminated Profile Shape Manufacturing       T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics pipes and pipe fittings, and
plastics profile shapes such as rod, tube, and sausage casings.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing plastics hose--are classified in Industry 32622, Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing noncurrent carrying plastics conduit--are classified in Industry 33593, Wiring Device
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing plastics plumbing fixtures--are classified in Industry 32619, Other Plastics Product
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing plastics film, plastics unlaminated sheet, and plastics bags--are classified in Industry 32611,
         Plastics Packaging Materials and Unlaminated Film and Sheet Manufacturing.

326121 Unlaminated Plastics Profile Shape Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting plastics resins into nonrigid plastics
profile shapes (except film, sheet, and bags), such as rod, tube, and sausage casings.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing plastics film, plastics unlaminated sheet, and plastics bags--are classified in Industry 32611,
          Plastics Packaging Materials and Unlaminated Film and Sheet Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing plastics hoses--are classified in Industry 326220, Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting
          Manufacturing.

326122 Plastics Pipe and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in converting plastics resins into rigid plastics
pipes and pipe fittings.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing plastics hose--are classified in Industry 326220, Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting
          Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing noncurrent-carrying plastics conduit--are classified in U.S. Industry 335932, Noncurrent-
          Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing plastics plumbing fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 326191, Plastics Plumbing
          Fixture Manufacturing.

32613     Laminated Plastics Plate, Sheet (except Packaging), and Shape Manufacturing       T

          See industry description for 326130 below.

326130 Laminated Plastics Plate, Sheet (except Packaging), and Shape Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in laminating plastics profile shapes such as plate, sheet
(except packaging), and rod. The lamination process generally involves bonding or impregnating profiles with
plastics resins and compressing them under heat.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing plastics film, plastics unlaminated sheet, and plastics bags--are classified in Industry 32611,
          Plastics Packaging Materials and Unlaminated Film and Sheet Manufacturing; and
     Coating or laminating nonplastics film, sheet, or bags with plastics--are classified in Industry 322220,
          Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing.

32614     Polystyrene Foam Product Manufacturing     T

          See industry description for 326140 below.

326140 Polystyrene Foam Product Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing polystyrene foam products.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics foam products (except polystyrene) are classified in
Industry 326150, Urethane and Other Foam Product (except Polystyrene) Manufacturing.

32615     Urethane and Other Foam Product (except Polystyrene) Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 326150 below.

326150 Urethane and Other Foam Product (except Polystyrene) Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics foam products (except
polystyrene).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing polystyrene foam products are classified in Industry 326140,
Polystyrene Foam Product Manufacturing.

32616     Plastics Bottle Manufacturing     T

          See industry description for 326160 below.

326160 Plastics Bottle Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics bottles.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics containers (except bottles) are classified in U.S.
Industry 326199, All Other Plastics Product Manufacturing.

32619     Other Plastics Product Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics plumbing fixtures and other
plastics products (except film, sheet, bags, profile shapes, pipes, pipe fittings, laminates, foam products, and bottles).

Illustrative Examples:

Inflatable plastics swimming pool rafts and similar flotation devices manufacturing
Plastics bowls and bowl covers manufacturing
Plastics cups (except foam) manufacturing
Plastics dinnerware (except foam) manufacturing
Plastics gloves manufacturing
Plastics hardware manufacturing
Plastics or fiberglass plumbing fixtures (e.g., toilets, shower stalls, urinals) manufacturing
Plastics siding manufacturing
Plastics trash containers manufacturing
Resilient floor coverings (e.g., sheet, tiles) manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing plastics film, plastics unlaminated sheet, and plastics bags--are classified in Industry 32611,
          Plastics Packaging Materials and Unlaminated Film and Sheet Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics pipes, pipe fittings, and plastics profile shapes (except films, sheet, bags)--are
          classified in Industry 32612, Plastics Pipe, Pipe Fitting, and Unlaminated Profile Shape Manufacturing;
      Laminating plastics profile shapes, such as plate, sheet, and rod--are classified in Industry 32613,
          Laminated Plastics Plate, Sheet (except Packaging), and Shape Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing polystyrene foam products--are classified in Industry 32614, Polystyrene Foam Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing foam products (except polystyrene)--are classified in Industry 32615, Urethane and Other
          Foam Product (except Polystyrene) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics bottles--are classified in Industry 32616, Plastics Bottle Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics furniture parts--are classified in Industry 33721, Office Furniture (including
          Fixtures) Manufacturing;
      Assembling plastics components into plumbing fixture fittings, such as faucets--are classified in Industry
          33291, Metal Valve Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing rubber floor mats and rubber treads--are classified in Industry 32629, Other Rubber Product
          Manufacturing.

326191 Plastics Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics or fiberglass plumbing
fixtures. Examples of products made by these establishments are plastics or fiberglass bathtubs, hot tubs, portable
toilets, and shower stalls.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Assembling plastics components into plumbing fixture fittings, such as faucets--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 332913, Plumbing Fixture Fitting and Trim Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing plastics pipe and pipe fittings--are classified in U.S. Industry 326122, Plastics Pipe and Pipe
          Fitting Manufacturing.

326199 All Other Plastics Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics products (except film,
sheet, bags, profile shapes, pipes, pipe fittings, laminates, foam products, bottles, and plumbing fixtures).

Illustrative Examples:

Inflatable plastics swimming pool rafts and similar flotation devices manufacturing
Plastics air mattresses manufacturing
Plastics bowls and bowl covers manufacturing
Plastics clothes hangers manufacturing
Plastics cups (except foam) manufacturing
Plastics dinnerware (except foam) manufacturing
Plastics gloves manufacturing
Plastics hardware manufacturing
Plastics siding manufacturing
Plastics trash containers manufacturing
Resilient floor covering manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing plastics film, plastics unlaminated sheet, and plastics bags--are classified in Industry 32611,
          Plastics Packaging Materials and Unlaminated Film and Sheet Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics pipes, pipe fittings, and plastics profile shapes (except film, sheet, bags)--are
          classified in Industry 32612, Plastics Pipe, Pipe Fitting, and Unlaminated Profile Shape Manufacturing;
      Laminating plastics profile shapes, such as plate, sheet, and rod--are classified in Industry 326130,
          Laminated Plastics Plate, Sheet (except Packaging), and Shape Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing polystyrene foam products--are classified in Industry 326140, Polystyrene Foam Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing foam (except polystyrene) products--are classified in Industry 326150, Urethane and Other
          Foam Product (except Polystyrene) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics bottles--are classified in Industry 326160, Plastics Bottle Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing heavy-duty inflatable plastics boats--are classified in U.S. Industry 336612, Boat Building;
      Manufacturing plastics furniture parts and components--are classified in U.S. Industry 337215, Showcase,
          Partition, Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing rubber floor mats and rubber treads--are classified in U.S. Industry 326299, All Other
          Rubber Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics plumbing fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 326191, Plastics Plumbing
          Fixture Manufacturing; and
      Assembling plastics components into plumbing fixtures fittings such as faucets--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 332913, Plumbing Fixture Fitting and Trim Manufacturing.

3262     Rubber Product Manufacturing       T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in processing natural, synthetic, or reclaimed
rubber materials into intermediate or final products using processes, such as vulcanizing, cementing, molding,
extruding, and lathe-cutting.

32621    Tire Manufacturing    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing tires and inner tubes from natural and
synthetic rubber and retreading or rebuilding tires.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Repairing tires, such as plugging--are classified in Industry 81119, Other Automotive Repair and
         Maintenance; and
     Retailing tires--are classified in Industry 44132, Tire Dealers.

326211 Tire Manufacturing (except Retreading)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing tires and inner tubes from natural
and synthetic rubber.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in retreading or rebuilding tires are classified in U.S. Industry 326212, Tire
Retreading.

326212 Tire Retreading

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retreading or rebuilding tires.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Repairing tires, such as plugging--are classified in U.S. Industry 811198, All Other Automotive Repair and
         Maintenance;
     Retailing tires--are classified in Industry 441320, Tire Dealers; and
     Manufacturing tires and inner tubes from natural and synthetic rubber--are classified in U.S. Industry
         326211, Tire Manufacturing (except Retreading).

32622    Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting Manufacturing       T

         See industry description for 326220 below.

326220 Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing rubber hose and/or plastics
(reinforced) hose and belting from natural and synthetic rubber and/or plastics resins. Establishments manufacturing
garden hoses from purchased hose are included in this industry.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing rubber tubing--are classified in U.S. Industry 326299, All Other Rubber Product
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing plastics tubing--are classified in U.S. Industry 326121, Unlaminated Plastics Profile Shape
         Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing extruded, lathe-cut, molded rubber goods (except tubing) for mechanical applications--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 326291, Rubber Product Manufacturing for Mechanical Use; and
      Manufacturing fluid power hose assemblies--are classified in U.S. Industry 332912, Fluid Power Valve and
          Hose Fitting Manufacturing.

32629     Other Rubber Product Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing rubber products (except tires, hoses,
and belting) from natural and synthetic rubber.

Illustrative Examples:

Birth control devices (e.g., diaphragms, prophylactics) manufacturing
Latex foam rubber manufacturing
Mechanical rubber goods (i.e., molded, extruded, lathe-cut) manufacturing
Reclaiming rubber from waste and scrap
Rubber bands manufacturing
Rubber balloons manufacturing
Rubber floor mats (e.g., door, bath) manufacturing
Rubber hair care products (e.g., combs, curlers) manufacturing
Rubber tubing manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing tires and inner tubes--are classified in Industry 32621, Tire Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing rubber hoses and belting--are classified in Industry 32622, Rubber and Plastics Hoses and
          Belting Manufacturing;
      Rubberizing fabric--are classified in Industry 31332, Fabric Coating Mills;
      Manufacturing rubber gaskets, packing, and sealing devices--are classified in Industry 33999, All Other
          Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing rubber gloves--are classified in Industry 33911, Medical Equipment and Supplies
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing rubber clothing accessories (e.g., bathing caps)--are classified in Industry 31599, Apparel
          Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing rubber toys--are classified in Industry 33993, Doll, Toy, and Game Manufacturing.

326291 Rubber Product Manufacturing for Mechanical Use

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing rubber goods (except tubing) for
mechanical applications, using the processes of molding, extruding or lathe-cutting. Products of this industry are
generally parts for motor vehicles, machinery, and equipment.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing rubber tubing from natural and synthetic rubber or in
manufacturing rubber products for mechanical applications using processes other than molding, extruding or lathe-
cutting are classified in U.S. Industry 326299, All Other Rubber Product Manufacturing.

326299 All Other Rubber Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing rubber products (except tires;
hoses and belting; and molded, extruded, and lathe-cut rubber goods for mechanical applications (except rubber
tubing)) from natural and synthetic rubber. Establishments manufacturing rubber tubing made from natural and
synthetic rubber, regardless of process used, are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Birth control devices (i.e., diaphragms, prophylactics)manufacturing
Latex foam rubber manufacturing
Reclaiming rubber from waste and scrap
Rubber balloons manufacturing
Rubber bands manufacturing
Rubber floor mats (e.g., door, bath) manufacturing
Rubber hair care products (e.g., combs, curlers) manufacturing
Rubber tubing manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing tires, inner tubes, and tire rebuilding--are classified in Industry 32621, Tire Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing rubber hoses and belting--are classified in Industry 326220, Rubber and Plastics Hoses and
          Belting Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing heavy-duty inflatable rubber boats--are classified in U.S. Industry 336612, Boat Building;
      Molding, extruding, and lathe-cutting rubber to manufacture rubber goods (except tubing) for mechanical
          applications--are classified in U.S. Industry 326291, Rubber Product Manufacturing for Mechanical Use;
      Rubberizing fabrics--are classified in Industry 313320, Fabric Coating Mills;
      Manufacturing rubber gaskets, packing, and sealing devices--are classified in U.S. Industry 339991,
          Gasket, Packing, and Sealing Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing rubber toys--are classified in Industry 339930, Doll, Toy, and Game Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing rubber gloves--are classified in U.S. Industry 339113, Surgical Appliance and Supplies
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing rubber clothing accessories (e.g., bathing caps)--are classified in Industry 315990, Apparel
          Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing.

327       Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing        T



  The Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing subsector transforms mined or quarried nonmetallic minerals,
such as sand, gravel, stone, clay, and refractory materials, into products for intermediate or final consumption.
Processes used include grinding, mixing, cutting, shaping, and honing. Heat often is used in the process and
chemicals are frequently mixed to change the composition, purity, and chemical properties for the intended product.
For example, glass is produced by heating silica sand to the melting point (sometimes combined with cullet or
recycled glass) and then drawn, floated, or blow molded to the desired shape or thickness. Refractory materials are
heated and then formed into bricks or other shapes for use in industrial applications.
  The Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing subsector includes establishments that manufacture products,
such as bricks, refractories, ceramic products, and glass and glass products, such as plate glass and containers. Also
included are cement and concrete products, lime, gypsum and other nonmetallic mineral products including abrasive
products, ceramic plumbing fixtures, statuary, cut stone products, and mineral wool. The products are used in a
wide range of activities from construction and heavy and light manufacturing to articles for personal use.
  Mining, beneficiating, and manufacturing activities often occur in a single location. Separate receipts will be
collected for these activities whenever possible. When receipts cannot be broken out between mining and
manufacturing, establishments that mine or quarry nonmetallic minerals, beneficiate the nonmetallic minerals and
further process the nonmetallic minerals into a more finished manufactured product are classified based on the
primary activity of the establishment. A mine that manufactures a small amount of finished products will be
classified in Sector 21, Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction. An establishment that mines whose primary
output is a more finished manufactured product will be classified in the Manufacturing Sector.
  Excluded from the Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing subsector are establishments that primarily
beneficiate mined nonmetallic minerals. Beneficiation is the process whereby the extracted material is reduced to
particles that can be separated into mineral and waste, the former suitable for further processing or direct use.
Beneficiation establishments are included in Sector 21, Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction.

3271      Clay Product and Refractory Manufacturing        T

32711     Pottery, Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing             T

          See industry description for 327110 below.

327110 Pottery, Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in shaping, molding, glazing, and firing pottery,
ceramics, plumbing fixtures, and electrical supplies made entirely or partly of clay or other ceramic materials.

Illustrative Examples:

Bathroom accessories, vitreous china and earthenware, manufacturing
Ceramic or ferrite permanent magnets manufacturing
Chemical stoneware (i.e., pottery products) manufacturing
Clay and ceramic statuary manufacturing
Earthenware table and kitchen articles, coarse, manufacturing
Porcelain electrical insulators manufacturing
Vitreous china plumbing fixtures manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing enameled iron and steel plumbing fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 332999, All Other
          Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal bathroom accessories--are classified in Subsector 332, Fabricated Metal Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cultured marble and other plastics plumbing fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 326191,
          Plastics Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing clay building materials, such as ceramic tile, bricks, and clay roofing tiles, and refractories--
          are classified in Industry 327120, Clay Building Material and Refractories Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing ferrite microwave devices and electronic components--are classified in Subsector 334,
          Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing plastics bathroom accessories--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics
          Product Manufacturing.

32712     Clay Building Material and Refractories Manufacturing            T

          See industry description for 327120 below.

327120 Clay Building Material and Refractories Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in shaping, molding, baking, burning, or hardening clay
refractories, nonclay refractories, ceramic tile, structural clay tile, brick, and other structural clay building materials.
A refractory is a material that will retain its shape and chemical identity when subjected to high temperatures and is
used in applications that require extreme resistance to heat, such as furnace linings.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing resilient flooring and asphalt floor tiles--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other
          Plastics Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing concrete bricks--are classified in U.S. Industry 327331, Concrete Block and Brick
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing glass bricks and blocks--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
          Manufacturing.

3272      Glass and Glass Product Manufacturing        T

32721    Glass and Glass Product Manufacturing       T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing glass and/or glass products.
Establishments in this industry may manufacture glass and/or glass products by melting silica sand or cullet, or
purchasing glass.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing glass wool (i.e., fiberglass) insulation products--are classified in Industry 32799, All Other
         Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing optical lenses (except ophthalmic), such as magnifying, photographic, and projection
         lenses--are classified in Industry 33331, Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing;
     Grinding ophthalmic (i.e., eyeglass) lenses for the trade--are classified in Industry 33911, Medical
         Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing fiber optic cable from purchased fiber optic strand--are classified in Industry 33592,
         Communication and Energy Wire and Cable Manufacturing.

327211 Flat Glass Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing flat glass by melting silica
sand or cullet or (2) manufacturing both flat glass and laminated glass by melting silica sand or cullet.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing laminated glass from purchased flat glass are classified in U.S.
Industry 327215, Glass Product Manufacturing Made of Purchased Glass.

327212 Other Pressed and Blown Glass and Glassware Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing glass by melting silica sand or
cullet and making pressed, blown, or shaped glass or glassware (except glass packaging containers).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing flat glass--are classified in U.S. Industry 327211, Flat Glass Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing glass packaging containers in glassmaking operations--are classified in U.S. Industry
         327213, Glass Container Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing glass wool (i.e., fiberglass) insulation--are classified in U.S. Industry 327993, Mineral Wool
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing glassware from purchased glass--are classified in U.S. Industry 327215, Glass Product
         Manufacturing Made of Purchased Glass; and
     Manufacturing fiber optic cable from purchased fiber optic strand--are classified in U.S. Industry 335921,
         Fiber Optic Cable Manufacturing.

327213 Glass Container Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing glass packaging containers.

327215 Glass Product Manufacturing Made of Purchased Glass

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in coating, laminating, tempering, or shaping
purchased glass.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing optical lenses (except ophthalmic), such as magnifying, photographic, and projection
         lenses--are classified in U.S. Industry 333314, Optical Instrument and Lens Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing ophthalmic (i.e., eyeglass) lenses--are classified in U.S. Industry 339115, Ophthalmic
         Goods Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing fiber optic cable from purchased fiber optic strand--are classified in U.S. Industry 335921,
         Fiber Optic Cable Manufacturing.

3273     Cement and Concrete Product Manufacturing        T



32731    Cement Manufacturing      T

         See industry description for 327310 below.

327310 Cement Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing portland, natural, masonry,
pozzolanic, and other hydraulic cements. Cement manufacturing establishments may calcine earths or mine, quarry,
manufacture, or purchase lime.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Mining or quarrying limestone--are classified in U.S. Industry 212312, Crushed and Broken Limestone
         Mining and Quarrying;
     Manufacturing lime--are classified in Industry 327410, Lime Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing ready-mix concrete--are classified in Industry 327320, Ready-Mix Concrete Manufacturing;
         and
     Manufacturing dry mix concrete--are classified in U.S. Industry 327999, All Other Miscellaneous
         Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing.

32732    Ready-Mix Concrete Manufacturing        T

         See industry description for 327320 below.

327320 Ready-Mix Concrete Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments, such as batch plants or mix plants, primarily engaged in manufacturing
concrete delivered to a purchaser in a plastic and unhardened state. Ready-mix concrete manufacturing
establishments may mine, quarry, or purchase sand and gravel.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Operating sand or gravel pits--are classified in U.S. Industry 212321, Construction Sand and Gravel
         Mining; and
     Manufacturing dry mix concrete--are classified in U.S. Industry 327999, All Other Miscellaneous
         Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing.

32733    Concrete Pipe, Brick, and Block Manufacturing      T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing concrete pipe, brick, and block.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing concrete products (except brick, block, and pipe) are classified
in Industry 32739, Other Concrete Product Manufacturing.

327331 Concrete Block and Brick Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing concrete block and brick.

327332 Concrete Pipe Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing concrete pipe.

32739    Other Concrete Product Manufacturing       T

         See industry description for 327390 below.

327390 Other Concrete Product Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing concrete products (except block,
brick, and pipe).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing concrete brick and block--are classified in U.S. Industry 327331, Concrete Block and Brick
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing concrete pipe--are classified in U.S. Industry 327332, Concrete Pipe Manufacturing.

3274     Lime and Gypsum Product Manufacturing         T



32741    Lime Manufacturing     T

         See industry description for 327410 below.

327410 Lime Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing lime from calcitic limestone,
dolomitic limestone, or other calcareous materials, such as coral, chalk, and shells. Lime manufacturing
establishments may mine, quarry, collect, or purchase the sources of calcium carbonate.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dolomite refractories are classified in Industry 327120, Clay
Building Material and Refractories Manufacturing.

32742    Gypsum Product Manufacturing       T

         See industry description for 327420 below.

327420 Gypsum Product Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing gypsum products, such as wallboard,
plaster, plasterboard, molding, ornamental moldings, statuary, and architectural plaster work. Gypsum product
manufacturing establishments may mine, quarry, or purchase gypsum.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in operating gypsum mines or quarries are classified in U.S. Industry 212399,
All Other Nonmetallic Mineral Mining.

3279     Other Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing         T



 This industry group comprises establishments manufacturing nonmetallic mineral products (except clay products,
refractory products, glass products, cement and concrete products, lime, and gypsum products).

32791     Abrasive Product Manufacturing     T

          See industry description for 327910 below.

327910 Abrasive Product Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing abrasive grinding wheels of natural or
synthetic materials, abrasive-coated products, and other abrasive products.

Illustrative Examples:

Aluminum oxide (fused) abrasives manufacturing
Buffing and polishing wheels, abrasive and nonabrasive, manufacturing
Diamond dressing wheels manufacturing
Sandpaper manufacturing
Silicon carbide abrasives manufacturing
Whetstones manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Mining and cutting grindstones, pulpstones, and whetstones--are classified in U.S. Industry 212399, All
          Other Nonmetallic Mineral Mining;
      Manufacturing plastic scouring pads--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics Product
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing metallic scouring sponges and soap impregnated scouring pads--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 332999, All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing.

32799     All Other Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonmetallic mineral products (except
pottery and plumbing fixtures; clay building materials and refractories; glass and glass products; cement; ready-mix
concrete; concrete products; lime; gypsum products; and abrasive products).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing pottery, ceramics, and plumbing fixtures--are classified in Industry 32711, Pottery,
          Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing;
      Mining or quarrying stone, earth, or other nonmetallic minerals--are classified in Industry Group 2123,
          Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying;
      Buying and selling semifinished monuments and tombstones with no work other than polishing, lettering,
          or shaping to custom order--are classified in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade or Sector 44-45, Retail Trade;
      Manufacturing clay building materials and refractories--are classified in Industry 32712, Clay Building
          Material and Refractories Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing glass and glass products--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cement--are classified in Industry 32731, Cement Manufacturing;
      Mixing and delivering ready-mix concrete--are classified in Industry 32732, Ready-Mix Concrete
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing concrete pipe, brick, and block--are classified in Industry 32733, Concrete Pipe, Brick, and
          Block Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing concrete products (except pipe, brick, and block)--are classified in Industry 32739, Other
          Concrete Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing lime--are classified in Industry 32741, Lime Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing gypsum products--are classified in Industry 32742, Gypsum Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing abrasive products--are classified in Industry 32791, Abrasive Product Manufacturing; and

       Manufacturing metallic scouring pads and steel wool--are classified in Industry 33299, All Other
          Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing.

327991 Cut Stone and Stone Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in cutting, shaping, and finishing granite, marble,
limestone, slate, and other stone for building and miscellaneous uses. Stone product manufacturing establishments
may mine, quarry, or purchase stone.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

       Mining or quarrying stone--are classified in Industry Group 2123, Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and
          Quarrying; and
       Buying and selling semifinished monuments and tombstones with no work other than polishing, lettering,
          or shaping to custom order--are classified in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade or Sector 44-45, Retail Trade.

327992 Ground or Treated Mineral and Earth Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in calcining, dead burning, or otherwise processing
beyond beneficiation, clays, ceramic and refractory minerals, barite, and miscellaneous nonmetallic minerals.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in crushing, grinding, pulverizing, washing, screening, sizing, or otherwise
beneficiating mined clays, ceramics and refractory, and other miscellaneous nonmetallic minerals are classified in
Industry Group 2123, Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying.

327993 Mineral Wool Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing mineral wool and mineral wool
(i.e., fiberglass) insulation products made of such siliceous materials as rock, slag, and glass or combinations
thereof.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metallic scouring pads and steel wool are classified in U.S.
Industry 332999, All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing.

327999 All Other Miscellaneous Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonmetallic mineral products
(except pottery, ceramics, and plumbing fixtures; clay building materials and refractories; glass and glass products;
cement; ready-mix concrete; concrete products; lime; gypsum products; abrasive products; cut stone and stone
products; ground and treated minerals and earth; and mineral wool).

Illustrative Examples:

Dry mix concrete manufacturing
Mica products manufacturing
Stucco and stucco products manufacturing
Synthetic stones, for gem stones and industrial use, manufacturing

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

       Manufacturing pottery, ceramics, and plumbing fixtures--are classified in Industry 327110, Pottery,
          Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing clay building materials and refractories--are classified in Industry 327120, Clay Building
          Material and Refractories Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing glass and glass products--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cement--are classified in Industry 327310, Cement Manufacturing;
      Mixing and delivering ready-mix concrete--are classified in Industry 327320, Ready-Mix Concrete
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing concrete pipe, brick, and block--are classified in Industry 32733, Concrete Pipe, Brick, and
          Block Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing concrete products (except pipe, brick, and block)--are classified in Industry 327390, Other
          Concrete Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing lime--are classified in Industry 327410, Lime Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing gypsum products--are classified in Industry 327420, Gypsum Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing abrasives and abrasive products--are classified in Industry 327910, Abrasive Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cut stone and stone products--are classified in U.S. Industry 327991, Cut Stone and Stone
          Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing ground and treated minerals and earth (i.e., not at the mine site)--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 327992, Ground or Treated Mineral and Earth Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing mineral wool and fiberglass insulation products--are classified in U.S. Industry 327993,
          Mineral Wool Manufacturing.

331       Primary Metal Manufacturing       T



  Industries in the Primary Metal Manufacturing subsector smelt and/or refine ferrous and nonferrous metals from
ore, pig or scrap, using electrometallurgical and other process metallurgical techniques. Establishments in this
subsector also manufacture metal alloys and superalloys by introducing other chemical elements to pure metals. The
output of smelting and refining, usually in ingot form, is used in rolling, drawing, and extruding operations to make
sheet, strip, bar, rod, or wire, and in molten form to make castings and other basic metal products.
  Primary manufacturing of ferrous and nonferrous metals begins with ore or concentrate as the primary input.
Establishments manufacturing primary metals from ore and/or concentrate remain classified in the primary smelting,
primary refining, or iron and steel mill industries regardless of the form of their output. Establishments primarily
engaged in secondary smelting and/or secondary refining recover ferrous and nonferrous metals from scrap and/or
dross. The output of the secondary smelting and/or secondary refining industries is limited to shapes such as ingot
or billet that will be further processed. Recovery of metals from scrap often occurs in establishments that are
primarily engaged in activities, such as rolling, drawing, extruding, or similar processes.
  Excluded from the Primary Metal Manufacturing subsector are establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing
ferrous and nonferrous forgings (except ferrous forgings made in steel mills) and stampings. Although forging,
stamping, and casting are all methods used to make metal shapes, forging and stamping do not use molten metals
and are included in Subsector 332, Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing. Establishments primarily engaged in
operating coke ovens are classified in Industry 32419, Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing.

3311      Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing       T



33111     Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing       T

          See industry description for 331110 below.

331110 Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) direct reduction of
iron ore; (2) manufacturing pig iron in molten or solid form; (3) converting pig iron into steel; (4) making steel; (5)
making steel and manufacturing shapes (e.g., bar, plate, rod, sheet, strip, wire); (6) making steel and forming pipe
and tube; and (7) manufacturing electrometallurgical ferroalloys. Ferroalloys add critical elements, such as silicon
and manganese for carbon steel and chromium, vanadium, tungsten, titanium, and molybdenum for low- and high-

alloy metals. Ferroalloys include iron-rich alloys and more pure forms of elements added during the steel
manufacturing process that alter or improve the characteristics of the metal being made.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Operating coke ovens--are classified in U.S. Industry 324199, All Other Petroleum and Coal Products
          Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing nonferrous superalloys, such as cobalt or nickel-based superalloys--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 331492, Secondary Smelting, Refining, and Alloying of Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and
          Aluminum);
     Manufacturing concrete reinforcing bar by rolling and drawing steel from purchased steel--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 331221, Rolled Steel Shape Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing fabricated structural metal products from concrete reinforcing bars and fabricated bar joists-
          -are classified in U.S. Industry 332312, Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing.

3312      Steel Product Manufacturing from Purchased Steel        T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing iron and steel tube and pipe,
drawing steel wire, and rolling or drawing shapes from purchased iron or steel.

33121     Iron and Steel Pipe and Tube Manufacturing from Purchased Steel          T

          See industry description for 331210 below.

331210 Iron and Steel Pipe and Tube Manufacturing from Purchased Steel

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing welded, riveted, or seamless pipe and
tube from purchased iron or steel.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in making steel and further processing the steel into steel pipe and tube are
classified in Industry 331110, Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing.

33122     Rolling and Drawing of Purchased Steel      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in rolling and/or drawing steel shapes, such as plate,
sheet, strip, rod, and bar, from purchased steel.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Making steel and rolling and/or drawing steel--are classified in Industry 33111, Iron and Steel Mills and
          Ferroalloy Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing wire products from purchased wire--are classified in Industry 33261, Spring and Wire
          Product Manufacturing.

331221 Rolled Steel Shape Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in rolling or drawing shapes (except wire), such as
plate, sheet, strip, rod, and bar, from purchased steel.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Making steel and rolling or drawing steel shapes, or manufacturing concrete reinforcing bars in an iron and
          steel mill--are classified in Industry 331110, Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing;
     Drawing wire from purchased steel--are classified in U.S. Industry 331222, Steel Wire Drawing; and

     Manufacturing fabricated structural metal products from concrete reinforcing bars and fabricated bar joists-
         -are classified in U.S. Industry 332312, Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing.

331222 Steel Wire Drawing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in drawing wire from purchased steel.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Making steel and drawing steel wire--are classified in Industry 331110, Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing wire products, such as nails, spikes, and paper clips, from purchased steel wire--are
         classified in Industry 33261, Spring and Wire Product Manufacturing.

3313     Alumina and Aluminum Production and Processing           T



33131    Alumina and Aluminum Production and Processing           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) refining alumina;
(2) making (i.e., the primary production) aluminum from alumina; (3) recovering aluminum from scrap or dross; (4)
alloying purchased aluminum; and (5) manufacturing aluminum primary forms (e.g., bar, foil, pipe, plate, rod, sheet,
tube, wire).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing aluminum oxide abrasives and refractories--are classified in Subsector 327, Nonmetallic
         Mineral Product Manufacturing;
     Sorting and breaking up scrap aluminum metal without also smelting or refining--are classified in Sector
         42, Wholesale Trade; and
     Operating facilities where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans,
         and metals are sorted into distinct categories without also smelting or refining--are classified in Industry
         56292, Materials Recovery Facilities.

331313 Alumina Refining and Primary Aluminum Production

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) refining
alumina (i.e., aluminum oxide) generally from bauxite; (2) making aluminum from alumina; and/or (3) making
aluminum from alumina and rolling, drawing, extruding, or casting the aluminum they make into primary forms.
Establishments in this industry may make primary aluminum or aluminum-based alloys from alumina.

Cross-references.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing aluminum oxide abrasives and refractories--are classified in Subsector 327, Nonmetallic
         Mineral Product Manufacturing; and
     Recovering aluminum from scrap or alloying purchased aluminum--are classified in U.S. Industry 331314,
         Secondary Smelting and Alloying of Aluminum.

331314 Secondary Smelting and Alloying of Aluminum

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) recovering aluminum and aluminum alloys
from scrap and/or dross (i.e., secondary smelting) and making billet or ingot (except by rolling) and/or (2)
manufacturing alloys, powder, paste, or flake from purchased aluminum.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Refining alumina or making aluminum and/or aluminum alloys from alumina--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 331313, Alumina Refining and Primary Aluminum Production;
      Manufacturing aluminum sheet, plate, and foil from purchased aluminum or by recovering aluminum from
          scrap and flat rolling or continuous casting--are classified in U.S. Industry 331315, Aluminum Sheet, Plate,
          and Foil Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing aluminum extruded products or rolled ingot or billet from purchased aluminum or by
          recovering aluminum from scrap and extruding, rolling, or drawing--are classified in U.S. Industry 331318,
          Other Aluminum Rolling, Drawing, and Extruding;
      Sorting and breaking up scrap metal without also smelting or refining--are classified in Industry 423930,
          Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Operating facilities where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans,
          and metals, are sorted into distinct categories without also smelting or refining--are classified in Industry
          562920, Materials Recovery Facilities.

331315 Aluminum Sheet, Plate, and Foil Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) flat rolling or continuous casting sheet,
plate, foil and welded tube from purchased aluminum; and/or (2) recovering aluminum from scrap and flat rolling or
continuous casting sheet, plate, foil, and welded tube in integrated mills.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in making aluminum from alumina and flat rolling or continuous casting
aluminum sheet, plate, foil, and welded tube are classified in U.S. Industry 331313, Alumina Refining and Primary
Aluminum Production.

331318 Other Aluminum Rolling, Drawing, and Extruding

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes (except
flat rolled sheet, plate, foil, and welded tube) from purchased aluminum; and/or (2) recovering aluminum from scrap
and rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes (except flat rolled sheet, plate, foil, and welded tube) in integrated mills.

Illustrative Examples:

Aluminum bar made by extruding purchased aluminum
Nails, aluminum, made in wire drawing plants
Rod made by extruding purchased aluminum
Structural shapes made by rolling purchased aluminum
Tube made by drawing or extruding purchased aluminum
Wire, bare, made in aluminum wire drawing plants

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Flat rolling sheet, plate, foil, and welded tube from either purchased aluminum or by recovering aluminum
          from scrap and flat rolling or continuous casting--are classified in U.S. Industry 331315, Aluminum Sheet,
          Plate, and Foil Manufacturing; and
      Making aluminum from alumina and making aluminum shapes--are classified in U.S. Industry 331313,
          Alumina Refining and Primary Aluminum Production.

3314      Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Production and Processing             T



33141     Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining           T

          See industry description for 331410 below.

331410 Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) smelting ores into nonferrous metals and/or (2)
the primary refining of nonferrous metals (except aluminum) by electrolytic methods or other processes.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Mining and making copper and other nonferrous concentrates (including gold and silver bullion), by
         processes, such as solvent extraction or electrowinning--are classified in Industry Group 2122, Metal Ore
         Mining;
      Recovering copper or copper alloys from scrap or dross and/or alloying, rolling, drawing, and extruding
         purchased copper--are classified in Industry 331420, Copper Rolling, Drawing, Extruding, and Alloying;
      Rolling, drawing, and/or extruding nonferrous metal shapes (except copper and aluminum) from purchased
         nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum) or by recovering nonferrous metals (except copper and
         aluminum) and rolling, drawing, or extruding--are classified in U.S. Industry 331491, Nonferrous Metal
         (except Copper and Aluminum) Rolling, Drawing, and Extruding;
      Recovering nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum) from scrap and making primary forms and/or
         alloying purchased nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum)--are classified in U.S. Industry
         331492, Secondary Smelting, Refining, and Alloying of Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum);
      Making aluminum from alumina--are classified in U.S. Industry 331313, Alumina Refining and Primary
         Aluminum Production;
      Operating facilities where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans,
         and metals, are sorted into distinct categories without also smelting or refining--are classified in Industry
         562920, Materials Recovery Facilities; and
      Sorting, buying, breaking up scrap metal, and reselling, without also smelting or refining--are classified in
         Industry 423930, Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers.

33142    Copper Rolling, Drawing, Extruding, and Alloying          T

         See industry description for 331420 below.

331420 Copper Rolling, Drawing, Extruding, and Alloying

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) recovering copper
or copper alloys from scraps; (2) alloying purchased copper; (3) rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes, (e.g., bar,
plate, sheet, strip, tube, wire) from purchased copper; and (4) recovering copper or copper alloys from scrap and
rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes (e.g., bar, plate, sheet, strip, tube, wire).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Smelting copper ore, primary copper refining, and/or rolling, drawing, or extruding primary copper made in
         the same establishment--are classified in Industry 331410, Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting
         and Refining;
      Manufacturing wire products from purchased copper wire--are classified in Industry 33261, Spring and
         Wire Product Manufacturing;
      Die-casting purchased copper--are classified in U.S. Industry 331523, Nonferrous Metal Die-Casting
         Foundries;
      Rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes from purchased nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum) or
         recovering nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum) from scrap and rolling, drawing, or extruding-
         -are classified in U.S. Industry 331491, Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum) Rolling,
         Drawing, and Extruding;
      Recovering nonferrous metals (except copper, aluminum) from scrap and making primary forms and/or
         alloying purchased nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum)--are classified in U.S. Industry
         331492, Secondary Smelting, Refining, and Alloying of Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum);
      Insulating purchased copper wire--are classified in U.S. Industry 335929, Other Communication and
         Energy Wire Manufacturing;

      Operating facilities where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans,
         and metals, are sorted into distinct categories without also smelting or refining--are classified in Industry
         562920, Materials Recovery Facilities; and
      Sorting, buying, breaking up scrap metal, and reselling, without also smelting or refining--are classified in
         Industry 423930, Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers.

33149    Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum) Rolling, Drawing, Extruding, and
          Alloying  T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) recovering
nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum) and nonferrous metal alloys from scrap; (2) alloying purchased
nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum); (3) rolling, drawing, and extruding shapes from purchased
nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum); and (4) recovering nonferrous metals from scrap (except copper
and aluminum) and rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes in integrated facilities.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Rolling, drawing, and/or extruding aluminum or secondary smelting and alloying of aluminum--are
         classified in Industry 33131, Alumina and Aluminum Production and Processing;
      Recovering copper and copper alloys from scrap, alloying purchased copper, rolling, drawing, or extruding
         shapes from purchased copper, and recovering copper or copper alloys from scrap and rolling, drawing, or
         extruding shapes in integrated mills--are classified in Industry 33142, Copper Rolling, Drawing, Extruding,
         and Alloying;
      Insulating purchased nonferrous wire--are classified in Industry 33592, Communication and Energy Wire
         and Cable Manufacturing;
      Making primary nonferrous metals and rolling, drawing, or extruding nonferrous metal shapes--are
         classified in Industry 33141, Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining;
      Manufacturing products from purchased wire--are classified in Industry 33261, Spring and Wire Product
         Manufacturing;
      Sorting and breaking up scrap metal without also smelting or refining--are classified in Sector 42,
         Wholesale Trade; and
      Operating facilities where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans,
         and metals, are sorted into distinct categories without also smelting or refining--are classified in Industry
         56292, Materials Recovery Facilities.

331491 Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum) Rolling, Drawing, and Extruding

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes (e.g.,
bar, plate, sheet, strip, tube) from purchased nonferrous metals; and/or (2) recovering nonferrous metals from scrap
and rolling, drawing, and/or extruding shapes (e.g., bar, plate, sheet, strip, tube) in integrated mills.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Rolling, drawing, and/or extruding shapes from purchased copper or recovering copper from scrap and
         rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes--are classified in Industry 331420, Copper Rolling, Drawing,
         Extruding, and Alloying;
      Recovering nonferrous metals (except copper and aluminum) from scrap and making primary forms and/or
         alloying purchased nonferrous metals--are classified in U.S. Industry 331492, Secondary Smelting,
         Refining, and Alloying of Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum);
      Rolling, drawing, and/or extruding aluminum--are classified in Industry 33131, Alumina and Aluminum
         Production and Processing;
      Making primary nonferrous metals and rolling, drawing, or extruding nonferrous metal shapes--are
         classified in Industry 331410, Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining; and
      Insulating purchased nonferrous wire--are classified in U.S. Industry 335929, Other Communication and
         Energy Wire Manufacturing.

331492 Secondary Smelting, Refining, and Alloying of Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and
          Aluminum)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) alloying purchased nonferrous metals and/or
(2) recovering nonferrous metals from scrap. Establishments in this industry make primary forms (e.g., bar, billet,
bloom, cake, ingot, slab, slug, wire) using smelting or refining processes.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Recovering aluminum and aluminum alloys from scrap and/or alloying purchased aluminum--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 331314, Secondary Smelting and Alloying of Aluminum;
      Sorting and breaking up scrap metal without also smelting or refining--are classified in Industry 423930,
          Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers;
      Recovering nonferrous metals from scrap and rolling, drawing, or extruding shapes in integrated facilities--
          are classified in U.S. Industry 331491, Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum) Rolling,
          Drawing, and Extruding;
      Operating facilities where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans,
          and metals, are sorted into distinct categories without also smelting or refining--are classified in Industry
          562920, Materials Recovery Facilities; and
      Recovering copper and copper alloys from scrap and making primary forms; and/or alloying purchased
          copper--are classified in Industry 331420, Copper Rolling, Drawing, Extruding, and Alloying.

3315      Foundries   T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in pouring molten metal into molds or dies to
form castings. Establishments making castings and further manufacturing, such as machining or assembling, a
specific manufactured product are classified in the industry of the finished product. Foundries may perform
operations, such as cleaning and deburring, on the castings they manufacture. More involved processes, such as
tapping, threading, milling, or machining to tight tolerances, that transform castings into more finished products are
classified elsewhere in the Manufacturing sector based on the product being made.
  Establishments in this industry group make castings from purchased metals or in integrated secondary smelting
and casting facilities. When the production of primary metals is combined with making castings, the establishment
is classified in Subsector 331, Primary Metal Manufacturing, with the primary metal being made.

33151     Ferrous Metal Foundries    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in pouring molten iron and steel into molds of a desired
shape to make castings. Establishments in this industry purchase iron and steel made in other establishments.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing iron or steel castings and further manufacturing them into
finished products are classified based on the specific finished product.

331511 Iron Foundries

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in pouring molten pig iron or iron alloys into
molds to manufacture castings, (e.g., cast iron man-hole covers, cast iron pipe, cast iron skillets). Establishments in
this industry purchase iron made in other establishments.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing iron castings and further manufacturing them into finished
products are classified based on the specific finished product.

331512 Steel Investment Foundries

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing steel investment castings.
Investment molds are formed by covering a wax shape with a refractory slurry. After the refractory slurry hardens,
the wax is melted, leaving a seamless mold. Investment molds provide highly detailed, consistent castings.
Establishments in this industry purchase steel made in other establishments.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing steel castings (except steel investment castings)--are classified in U.S. Industry 331513,
        Steel Foundries (except Investment); and
     Manufacturing steel investment castings and further manufacturing them into finished products--are
        classified based on the specific finished product.

331513 Steel Foundries (except Investment)

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing steel castings (except steel
investment castings). Establishments in this industry purchase steel made in other establishments.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing steel investment castings--are classified in U.S. Industry 331512, Steel Investment
        Foundries; and
     Manufacturing steel castings and further manufacturing them into finished products--are classified based on
        the specific finished product.

33152   Nonferrous Metal Foundries     T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in pouring and/or introducing molten nonferrous metal,
under high pressure, into metal molds or dies to manufacture castings. Establishments in this industry purchase
nonferrous metals made in other establishments.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing iron or steel castings--are classified in Industry 33151, Ferrous Metal Foundries; and
     Manufacturing nonferrous metal castings and further manufacturing them into finished products--are
        classified based on the specific finished product.

331523 Nonferrous Metal Die-Casting Foundries

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in introducing molten nonferrous metal, under
high pressure, into molds or dies to make nonferrous metal die-castings. Establishments in this industry purchase
nonferrous metals made in other establishments.

Cross-references.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Pouring molten aluminum into molds to manufacture aluminum castings--are classified in U.S. Industry
        331524, Aluminum Foundries (except Die-Casting);
     Pouring molten nonferrous metal (except aluminum) into molds to manufacture nonferrous (except
        aluminum) castings--are classified in U.S. Industry 331529, Other Nonferrous Metal Foundries (except
        Die-Casting); and
     Manufacturing nonferrous die-castings and further manufacturing them into finished products--are
        classified based on the specific finished product.

331524 Aluminum Foundries (except Die-Casting)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in pouring molten aluminum into molds to
manufacture aluminum castings. Establishments in this industry purchase aluminum made in other establishments.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing aluminum die-castings--are classified in U.S. Industry 331523, Nonferrous Metal Die-
         Casting Foundries; and
     Manufacturing aluminum or aluminum alloy castings and further manufacturing them into finished
         products--are classified based on the specific finished product.

331529 Other Nonferrous Metal Foundries (except Die-Casting)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in pouring molten nonferrous metals (except
aluminum) into molds to manufacture nonferrous castings (except nonferrous die-castings and aluminum castings).
Establishments in this industry purchase nonferrous metals, such as copper, nickel, lead, and zinc, made in other
establishments.

Cross-references.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing nonferrous die-castings--are classified in U.S. Industry 331523, Nonferrous Metal Die-
         Casting Foundries;
     Pouring molten aluminum into molds to manufacture aluminum castings--are classified in U.S. Industry
         331524, Aluminum Foundries (except Die-Casting); and
     Manufacturing nonferrous castings and further manufacturing them into finished products--are classified
         based on the specific finished product.

332      Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing       T



  Industries in the Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing subsector transform metal into intermediate or end
products, other than machinery, computers and electronics, and metal furniture, or treat metals and metal formed
products fabricated elsewhere. Important fabricated metal processes are forging, stamping, bending, forming, and
machining, used to shape individual pieces of metal; and other processes, such as welding and assembling, used to
join separate parts together. Establishments in this subsector may use one of these processes or a combination of
these processes.
  The NAICS structure for this subsector distinguishes the forging and stamping processes in a single industry. The
remaining industries in the subsector group establishments based on similar combinations of processes used to make
products.
  The manufacturing performed in the Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing subsector begins with manufactured
metal shapes. The establishments in this subsector further fabricate the purchased metal shapes into a product. For
instance, the Spring and Wire Product Manufacturing industry starts with wire and fabricates such items.
  Within manufacturing there are other establishments that make the same products made by this subsector; only
these establishments begin production further back in the production process. These establishments have a more
integrated operation. For instance, one establishment may manufacture steel, draw it into wire, and make wire
products in the same establishment. Such operations are classified in the Primary Metal Manufacturing subsector.

3321     Forging and Stamping     T



33211    Forging and Stamping     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
forgings from purchased metals; (2) manufacturing metal custom roll forming products; (3) manufacturing metal
stamped and spun products (except automotive, cans, coins); and (4) manufacturing powder metallurgy products.
Establishments making metal forgings, metal stampings, and metal spun products and further manufacturing (e.g.,

machining, assembling) a specific manufactured product are classified in the industry of the finished product. Metal
forging, metal stamping, and metal spun products establishments may perform surface finishing operations, such as
cleaning and deburring, on the products they manufacture.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing metal forgings in integrated primary metal establishments--are classified in Subsector 331,
          Primary Metal Manufacturing;
      Stamping automotive stampings--are classified in Industry 33637, Motor Vehicle Metal Stamping;
      Manufacturing and installing rolled formed seamless gutters at construction sites--are classified in Industry
          23839, Other Building Finishing Contractors; and
      Stamping coins--are classified in Industry 33991, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing.

332111 Iron and Steel Forging

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing iron and steel forgings from
purchased iron and steel by hammering mill shapes. Establishments making iron and steel forgings and further
manufacturing (e.g., machining, assembling) a specific manufactured product are classified in the industry of the
finished product. Iron and steel forging establishments may perform surface finishing operations, such as cleaning
and deburring, on the forgings they manufacture.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing iron and steel forgings in integrated iron and steel mills--are classified in Industry 331110,
          Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing nonferrous forgings--are classified in U.S. Industry 332112, Nonferrous Forging.

332112 Nonferrous Forging

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonferrous forgings from
purchased nonferrous metals by hammering mill shapes. Establishments making nonferrous forgings and further
manufacturing (e.g., machining, assembling) a specific manufactured product are classified in the industry of the
finished product. Nonferrous forging establishments may perform surface finishing operations, such as cleaning and
deburring, on the forgings they manufacture.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing iron and steel forgings--are classified in U.S. Industry 332111, Iron and Steel Forging; and
      Manufacturing nonferrous forgings in integrated primary or secondary nonferrous metal production
          facilities--are classified in Subsector 331, Primary Metal Manufacturing.

332114 Custom Roll Forming

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in custom roll forming metal products by use of
rotary motion of rolls with various contours to bend or shape the products.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and installing rolled formed seamless gutters at construction
sites are classified in Industry 238390, Other Building Finishing Contractors.

332117 Powder Metallurgy Part Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing powder metallurgy products
using any of the various powder metallurgy processing techniques, such as pressing and sintering or metal injection
molding. Establishments in this industry generally make a wide range of parts on a job or order basis.

332119 Metal Crown, Closure, and Other Metal Stamping (except Automotive)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) stamping metal crowns and closures, such as
bottle caps and home canning lids and rings, and/or (2) manufacturing other unfinished metal stampings and
spinning unfinished metal products (except automotive and coins). Establishments making metal stampings and
metal spun products and further manufacturing (e.g. machining, assembling) a specific product are classified in the
industry of the finished product. Metal stamping and metal spun products establishments may perform surface
finishing operations, such as cleaning and deburring, on the products they manufacture.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Stamping automotive stampings--are classified in Industry 336370, Motor Vehicle Metal Stamping;
      Manufacturing metal cans--are classified in U.S. Industry 332431, Metal Can Manufacturing; and
      Stamping coins--are classified in Industry 339910, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing.

3322     Cutlery and Handtool Manufacturing       T



33221    Cutlery and Handtool Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
metal kitchen cookware (except those manufactured by casting (e.g., cast iron skillets) or stamped without further
fabrication), utensils, and/or nonprecious and precious plated metal cutlery and flatware; (2) manufacturing saw
blades, all types (including those for power sawing machines); and (3) manufacturing nonpowered hand and edge
tools.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing precious (except precious plated) metal cutlery and flatware--are classified in Industry
         33991, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electric razors and hair clippers for use on humans--are classified in Industry 33521, Small
         Electrical Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing power hedge shears and trimmers and electric hair clippers for use on animals--are
         classified in Industry 33311, Agricultural Implement Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal cutting dies, attachments, and accessories for machine tools--are classified in Industry
         33351, Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing handheld power-driven handtools--are classified in Industry 33399, All Other General
         Purpose Machinery Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing finished cast iron kitchen utensils (i.e., cast iron skillets) and castings for kitchen utensils,
         pots, and pans--are classified in Industry Group 3315, Foundries.

332215 Metal Kitchen Cookware, Utensil, Cutlery, and Flatware (except Precious) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal kitchen cookware (except
those manufactured by casting (e.g., cast iron skillets) or stamped without further fabrication), utensils, and/or
nonprecious and precious plated metal cutlery and flatware.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing precious (except precious plated) metal cutlery and flatware--are classified in Industry
         339910, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing;

     Manufacturing electric razors and hair clippers for use on humans--are classified in Industry 335210, Small
         Electrical Appliance Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing power hedge shears and trimmers--are classified in U.S. Industry 333112, Lawn and Garden
         Tractor and Home Lawn and Garden Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing nonelectric hair clippers for use on animals--are classified in U.S. Industry 332216, Saw
         Blade and Handtool Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing finished cast metal kitchen utensils or castings for kitchen utensils--are classified in Industry
         Group 3315, Foundries; and
     Manufacturing stampings for kitchen utensils, pots, and pans--are classified in U.S. Industry 332119, Metal
         Crown, Closure, and Other Metal Stamping (except Automotive).

332216 Saw Blade and Handtool Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing saw blades, all types
(including those for power sawing machines) and/or (2) manufacturing nonpowered hand and edge tools.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing metal cutting dies, attachments, and accessories for machine tools--are classified in Industry
         33351, Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing handheld power-driven handtools--are classified in U.S. Industry 333991, Power-Driven
         Handtool Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing electric razors and hair clippers for use on humans--are classified in Industry 335210, Small
         Electrical Appliance Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing electric hair clippers for use on animals--are classified in U.S. Industry 333111, Farm
         Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing nonelectric household-type scissors and shears--are classified in U.S. Industry 332215,
         Metal Kitchen Cookware, Utensil, Cutlery, and Flatware (except Precious) Manufacturing.

3323     Architectural and Structural Metals Manufacturing        T



33231    Plate Work and Fabricated Structural Product Manufacturing          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing one or more of the following: (1)
prefabricated metal buildings, panels and sections; (2) structural metal products; and (3) metal plate work products.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Making manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes) and prefabricated wood buildings--are classified in
         Industry 32199, All Other Wood Product Manufacturing;
     Constructing buildings, bridges, and other heavy construction projects on site--are classified in Sector 23,
         Construction;
     Building ships, boats, and barges--are classified in Industry 33661, Ship and Boat Building;
     Manufacturing power boilers and heat exchangers--are classified in Industry 33241, Power Boiler and Heat
         Exchanger Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing heavy gauge tanks--are classified in Industry 33242, Metal Tank (Heavy Gauge)
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing metal plate cooling towers--are classified in Industry 33341, Ventilation, Heating, Air-
         Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing metal windows, doors, and studs--are classified in Industry 33232, Ornamental and
         Architectural Metal Products Manufacturing.

332311 Prefabricated Metal Building and Component Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing prefabricated metal buildings,
panels, and sections.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Making manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes) and prefabricated wood buildings--are classified in
         Industry 32199, All Other Wood Product Manufacturing;
      Constructing prefabricated buildings on site--are classified in Subsector 236, Construction of Buildings;
         and
      Manufacturing metal windows and doors--are classified in U.S. Industry 332321, Metal Window and Door
         Manufacturing.

332312 Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in fabricating structural metal products, such as
assemblies of concrete reinforcing bars and fabricated bar joists.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing concrete reinforcing bars in an iron and steel mill--are classified in Industry 331110, Iron
         and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal windows and doors--are classified in U.S. Industry 332321, Metal Window and Door
         Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal studs--are classified in U.S. Industry 332322, Sheet Metal Work Manufacturing;
      Constructing buildings, bridges, and other heavy construction projects on site--are classified in Sector 23,
         Construction;
      Manufacturing concrete reinforcing bar by rolling and drawing steel from purchased steel--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 331221, Rolled Steel Shape Manufacturing;
      Building ships, boats, and barges--are classified in Industry 33661, Ship and Boat Building; and
      Prefabricating metal buildings, panels, and sections--are classified in U.S. Industry 332311, Prefabricated
         Metal Building and Component Manufacturing.

332313 Plate Work Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fabricated metal plate work by
cutting, punching, bending, shaping, and welding purchased metal plate.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing power boilers and heat exchangers--are classified in Industry 332410, Power Boiler and
         Heat Exchanger Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing heavy gauge tanks--are classified in Industry 332420, Metal Tank (Heavy Gauge)
         Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing metal plate cooling towers--are classified in U.S. Industry 333415, Air-Conditioning and
         Warm Air Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing.

33232    Ornamental and Architectural Metal Products Manufacturing         T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing one or more of the following: (1)
metal framed windows (i.e., typically using purchased glass) and metal doors; (2) sheet metal work; and (3)
ornamental and architectural metal products.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing metal covered (i.e., clad) wood windows and doors--are classified in Industry 32191,
         Millwork;
     Manufacturing bins, cans, vats, and light tanks of sheet metal--are classified in Industry 33243, Metal Can,
         Box, and Other Metal Container (Light Gauge) Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing prefabricated metal buildings, panels, and sections--are classified in Industry 33231, Plate
         Work and Fabricated Structural Product Manufacturing;
     Fabricating sheet metal work on site--are classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors;
     Manufacturing metal stampings (except automotive, coins) and custom roll forming products--are classified
         in Industry 33211, Forging and Stamping;
     Manufacturing automotive stampings--are classified in Industry 33637, Motor Vehicle Metal Stamping;
         and
     Stamping coins--are classified in Industry 33991, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing.

332321 Metal Window and Door Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal framed windows (i.e.,
typically using purchased glass) and metal doors. Examples of products made by these establishments are metal
door frames; metal framed window and door screens; and metal molding and trim (except automotive).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing wood or metal covered (i.e., clad) wood framed windows and doors--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 321911, Wood Window and Door Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing metal automotive molding and trim--are classified in Industry 336370, Motor Vehicle Metal
         Stamping.

332322 Sheet Metal Work Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing sheet metal work (except
stampings).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing sheet metal bins, vats, and light tanks of sheet metal--are classified in U.S. Industry 332439,
         Other Metal Container Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing metal cans, lids, and ends--are classified in U.S. Industry 332431, Metal Can
         Manufacturing;
     Fabricating sheet metal work on site--are classified in Subsector 238, Specialty Trade Contractors;
     Manufacturing metal stampings (except automotive, coins) and custom roll forming products--are classified
         in Industry 33211, Forging and Stamping;
     Manufacturing automotive stampings--are classified in Industry 336370, Motor Vehicle Metal Stamping;
         and
     Stamping coins--are classified in Industry 339910, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing.

332323 Ornamental and Architectural Metal Work Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing ornamental and architectural
metal work, such as staircases, metal open steel flooring, fire escapes, railings, and scaffolding.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing prefabricated metal buildings, panels, and sections are
classified in U.S. Industry 332311, Prefabricated Metal Building and Component Manufacturing.

3324     Boiler, Tank, and Shipping Container Manufacturing         T

33241   Power Boiler and Heat Exchanger Manufacturing         T

        See industry description for 332410 below.

332410 Power Boiler and Heat Exchanger Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing power boilers and heat exchangers.
Establishments in this industry may perform installation in addition to manufacturing power boilers and heat
exchangers.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing heavy gauge metal tanks--are classified in Industry 332420, Metal Tank (Heavy Gauge)
        Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing steam or hot water low pressure heating boilers--are classified in U.S. Industry 333414,
        Heating Equipment (except Warm Air Furnaces) Manufacturing; and
     Installing power boilers and heat exchanges without manufacturing--are classified in Industry 238220,
        Plumbing, Heating, and Air-Conditioning Contractors.

33242   Metal Tank (Heavy Gauge) Manufacturing         T

        See industry description for 332420 below.

332420 Metal Tank (Heavy Gauge) Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in cutting, forming, and joining heavy gauge metal to
manufacture tanks, vessels, and other containers.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing power boilers--are classified in Industry 332410, Power Boiler and Heat Exchanger
        Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing light gauge metal containers--are classified in Industry 33243, Metal Can, Box, and Other
        Metal Container (Light Gauge) Manufacturing; and
     Installing heavy gauge metal tanks without manufacturing--are classified in Industry 238120, Structural
        Steel and Precast Concrete Contractors.

33243   Metal Can, Box, and Other Metal Container (Light Gauge) Manufacturing           T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in forming light gauge metal containers.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing foil containers--are classified in Industry 33299, All Other Fabricated Metal Product
        Manufacturing;
     Reconditioning barrels and drums--are classified in Industry 81131, Commercial and Industrial Machinery
        and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair and Maintenance; and
     Manufacturing heavy gauge metal containers--are classified in Industry 33242, Metal Tank (Heavy Gauge)
        Manufacturing.

332431 Metal Can Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal cans, lids, and ends.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing foil containers--are classified in U.S. Industry 332999, All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated
          Metal Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing light gauge metal containers (except cans)--are classified in U.S. Industry 332439, Other
          Metal Container Manufacturing.

332439 Other Metal Container Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal (light gauge) containers
(except cans).

Illustrative Examples:

Light gauge metal bins manufacturing
Light gauge metal drums manufacturing
Light gauge metal garbage cans manufacturing
Light gauge metal lunch boxes manufacturing
Light gauge metal mailboxes manufacturing
Light gauge metal tool boxes manufacturing
Light gauge metal vats manufacturing
Metal air cargo containers manufacturing
Metal barrels manufacturing
Vacuum bottles and jugs manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing foil containers--are classified in U.S. Industry 332999, All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated
          Metal Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal cans--are classified in U.S. Industry 332431, Metal Can Manufacturing;
      Reconditioning barrels and drums--are classified in Industry 811310, Commercial and Industrial Machinery
          and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair and Maintenance; and
      Manufacturing heavy gauge metal containers--are classified in Industry 332420, Metal Tank (Heavy
          Gauge) Manufacturing.

3325      Hardware Manufacturing      T



33251     Hardware Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 332510 below.

332510 Hardware Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal hardware, such as metal hinges,
metal handles, keys, and locks (except coin-operated, time locks).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing bolts, nuts, screws, rivets, washers, hose clamps, and turn-buckles--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 332722, Bolt, Nut, Screw, Rivet, and Washer Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing nails and spikes from wire drawn elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry 332618, Other
          Fabricated Wire Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal furniture parts (except hardware)--are classified in U.S. Industry 337215, Showcase,
          Partition, Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing;
      Drawing wire and manufacturing nails and spikes--are classified in Subsector 331, Primary Metal
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing pole line and transmission hardware--are classified in U.S. Industry 335932, Noncurrent-
          Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing coin-operated locking mechanisms--are classified in U.S. Industry 333318, Other
          Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing time locks--are classified in U.S. Industry 334519, Other Measuring and Controlling Device
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing fireplace fixtures and equipment, traps, handcuffs and leg irons, ladder jacks, and other like
          metal products--are classified in U.S. Industry 332999, All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing fire hose nozzles and couplings--are classified in U.S. Industry 332919, Other Metal Valve
          and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing luggage and utility racks--are classified in Industry 336390, Other Motor Vehicle Parts
          Manufacturing.

3326      Spring and Wire Product Manufacturing       T



33261     Spring and Wire Product Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing steel springs by forming, such as
cutting, bending, and heat winding, metal rod or strip stock and/or (2) manufacturing wire springs and fabricated
wire products from wire drawn elsewhere (except watch and clock springs).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing watch and clock springs from purchased wire--are classified in Industry 33451,
          Navigational, Measuring, Electromedical, and Control Instruments Manufacturing;
      Drawing wire and manufacturing wire products--are classified in Subsector 331, Primary Metal
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing nonferrous insulated wire from wire drawn elsewhere--are classified in Industry 33592,
          Communication and Energy Wire and Cable Manufacturing.

332613 Spring Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing springs from purchased wire,
strip, or rod.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing watch and clock springs--are classified in U.S. Industry 334519, Other Measuring and
          Controlling Device Manufacturing; and
      Producing wire, strip, or rod and further fabricating springs--are classified in Subsector 331, Primary Metal
          Manufacturing.

332618 Other Fabricated Wire Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fabricated wire products (except
springs) made from purchased wire.

Illustrative Examples:

Barbed wire made from purchased wire
Chain link fencing and fence gates made from purchased wire
Metal baskets made from purchased wire
Nails, brads, and staples made from purchased wire
Noninsulated wire cable made from purchased wire
Paper clips made from purchased wire
Woven wire cloth made from purchased wire

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Drawing wire and manufacturing wire products--are classified in Subsector 331, Primary Metal
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing springs from purchased wire, strip, or rod--are classified in U.S. Industry 332613, Spring
         Manufacturing; and
     Insulating nonferrous wire from wire drawn elsewhere--are classified in U.S. Industry 335929, Other
         Communication and Energy Wire Manufacturing.

3327     Machine Shops; Turned Product; and Screw, Nut, and Bolt Manufacturing             T



33271    Machine Shops    T

         See industry description for 332710 below.

332710 Machine Shops

  This industry comprises establishments known as machine shops primarily engaged in machining metal and plastic
parts and parts of other composite materials on a job or order basis. Generally machine shop jobs are low volume
using machine tools, such as lathes (including computer numerically controlled); automatic screw machines; and
machines for boring, grinding, and milling.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Repairing industrial machinery and equipment--are classified in Industry 811310, Commercial and
         Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair and Maintenance; and
     Manufacturing parts (except on a job or order basis) for machinery and equipment--are generally classified
         in the same manufacturing industry that makes complete machinery and equipment.

33272    Turned Product and Screw, Nut, and Bolt Manufacturing          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) machining precision turned products or (2)
manufacturing metal bolts, nuts, screws, rivets, and other industrial fasteners. Included in this industry are
establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing parts for machinery and equipment on a customized basis.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plastics fasteners are classified in Industry 32619, Other
Plastics Product Manufacturing.

332721 Precision Turned Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as precision turned manufacturers primarily engaged in
machining precision products of all materials on a job or order basis. Generally precision turned product jobs are
large volume using machines, such as automatic screw machines, rotary transfer machines, computer numerically
controlled (CNC) lathes, or turning centers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal bolts, nuts, screws, rivets, washers, and other industrial
fasteners on machines, such as headers, threaders, and nut forming machines, are classified in U.S. Industry 332722,
Bolt, Nut, Screw, Rivet, and Washer Manufacturing.

332722 Bolt, Nut, Screw, Rivet, and Washer Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal bolts, nuts, screws, rivets,
and washers, and other industrial fasteners using machines, such as headers, threaders, and nut forming machines.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing precision turned products--are classified in U.S. Industry 332721, Precision Turned Product
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing plastics fasteners--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics Product
         Manufacturing.

3328     Coating, Engraving, Heat Treating, and Allied Activities       T



33281    Coating, Engraving, Heat Treating, and Allied Activities       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) heat treating metals
and metal products; (2) enameling, lacquering, and varnishing metals and metal products; (3) hot dip galvanizing
metals and metal products; (4) engraving, chasing, or etching metals and metal products (except jewelry; personal
goods carried on or about the person, such as compacts and cigarette cases; precious metal products (except precious
plated flatware and other plated ware); and printing plates); (5) powder coating metals and metal products; (6)
electroplating, plating, anodizing, coloring, and finishing metals and metal products; and (7) providing other metal
surfacing services for the trade. Establishments in this industry coat, engrave, and heat treat metals and metal
formed products fabricated elsewhere.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Engraving, chasing or etching jewelry, metal personal goods, or precious (except precious plated) metal
         flatware and other plated ware--are classified in Industry 33991, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing;
     Engraving, chasing or etching printing plates--are classified in Industry 32312, Support Activities for
         Printing; and
     Both fabricating and coating, engraving, and heat treating metals and metal products--are classified in
         manufacturing according to the product made.

332811 Metal Heat Treating

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in heat treating, such as annealing, tempering, and
brazing, and cryogenically treating metals and metal products for the trade.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in both fabricating and heat treating metal products are classified in the
Manufacturing sector according to the product made.

332812 Metal Coating, Engraving (except Jewelry and Silverware), and Allied Services to
         Manufacturers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) enameling,
lacquering, and varnishing metals and metal products; (2) hot dip galvanizing metals and metal products; (3)
engraving, chasing, or etching metals and metal products (except jewelry; personal goods carried on or about the
person, such as compacts and cigarette cases; precious metal products (except precious plated flatware and other
plated ware); and printing plates); (4) powder coating metals and metal products; and (5) providing other metal
surfacing services for the trade. Included in this industry are establishments that perform these processes on other
materials, such as plastics, in addition to metals.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Both fabricating and coating and engraving products--are classified in the Manufacturing sector according
          to the product made;
      Engraving, chasing or etching jewelry, metal personal goods, or precious metal products (except precious
          plated metal flatware and other plated ware)--are classified in Industry 339910, Jewelry and Silverware
          Manufacturing; and
      Engraving, chasing or etching printing plates--are classified in Industry 323120, Support Activities for
          Printing.

332813 Electroplating, Plating, Polishing, Anodizing, and Coloring

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in electroplating, plating, anodizing, coloring,
buffing, polishing, cleaning, and sandblasting metals and metal products for the trade. Included in this industry are
establishments that perform these processes on other materials, such as plastics, in addition to metals.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in both fabricating and electroplating, plating, polishing, anodizing, and
coloring products are classified in the Manufacturing sector according to the product made.

3329      Other Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing        T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fabricated metal products
(except forgings and stampings, cutlery and handtools, architectural and structural metals, boilers, tanks, shipping
containers, hardware, spring and wire products, machine shop products, turned products, screws, and nuts and bolts).

33291     Metal Valve Manufacturing      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing one or more of the following metal
valves: (1) industrial valves; (2) fluid power valves and hose fittings; (3) plumbing fixture fittings and trim; and (4)
other metal valves and pipe fittings.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing fluid power cylinders and pumps--are classified in Industry 33399, All Other General
          Purpose Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing intake and exhaust valves for internal combustion engines--are classified in Industry 33631,
          Motor Vehicle Gasoline Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal shower rods and metal couplings from purchased metal pipe--are classified in
          Industry 33299, All Other Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics aerosol spray nozzles--are classified in Industry 32619, Other Plastics Product
          Manufacturing;
      Casting iron pipe fittings and couplings without machining--are classified in Industry 33151, Ferrous Metal
          Foundries; and
      Manufacturing plastics pipe fittings and couplings--are classified in Industry 32612, Plastics Pipe, Pipe
          Fitting, and Unlaminated Profile Shape Manufacturing.

332911 Industrial Valve Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing industrial valves and valves for
water works and municipal water systems.

Illustrative Examples:

Complete fire hydrants manufacturing
Industrial-type ball valves manufacturing

Industrial-type butterfly valves manufacturing
Industrial-type check valves manufacturing
Industrial-type gate valves manufacturing
Industrial-type globe valves manufacturing
Industrial-type plug valves manufacturing
Industrial-type solenoid valves (except fluid power) manufacturing
Industrial-type steam traps manufacturing
Valves for nuclear applications manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing fluid power valves--are classified in U.S. Industry 332912, Fluid Power Valve and Hose
          Fitting Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing plumbing and heating valves--are classified in U.S. Industry 332919, Other Metal Valve
          and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing.

332912 Fluid Power Valve and Hose Fitting Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fluid power valves and hose
fittings.

Illustrative Examples:

Fluid power aircraft subassemblies
Hose assemblies for fluid power systems
Hydraulic and pneumatic hose and tube fittings
Hydraulic and pneumatic valves

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing fluid power cylinders--are classified in U.S. Industry 333995, Fluid Power Cylinder and
          Actuator Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing fluid power pumps--are classified in U.S. Industry 333996, Fluid Power Pump and Motor
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing intake and exhaust valves for internal combustion engines--are classified in Industry
          336310, Motor Vehicle Gasoline Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing industrial-type valves--are classified in U.S. Industry 332911, Industrial Valve
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing plumbing and heating valves--are classified in U.S. Industry 332919, Other Metal Valve
          and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing.

332913 Plumbing Fixture Fitting and Trim Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal and plastics plumbing
fixture fittings and trim, such as faucets, flush valves, and shower heads.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing metal shower rods--are classified in U.S. Industry 332999, All Other Miscellaneous
          Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing fire hose nozzles, lawn hose nozzles, water traps, and couplings--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 332919, Other Metal Valve and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing.

332919 Other Metal Valve and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal valves (except industrial
valves, fluid power valves, fluid power hose fittings, and plumbing fixture fittings and trim).

Illustrative Examples:

Aerosol valves manufacturing
Firefighting nozzles manufacturing
Lawn hose nozzles manufacturing
Lawn sprinklers manufacturing
Metal hose couplings (except fluid power) manufacturing
Metal pipe flanges and flange unions manufacturing
Plumbing and heating in-line valves (e.g., check, cutoff, stop) manufacturing
Water traps manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing fluid power valves and hose fittings--are classified in U.S. Industry 332912, Fluid Power
          Valve and Hose Fitting Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing industrial valves--are classified in U.S. Industry 332911, Industrial Valve Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics aerosol spray nozzles--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics
          Product Manufacturing;
      Casting iron pipe fittings and couplings without machining--are classified in U.S. Industry 331511, Iron
          Foundries;
      Manufacturing metal couplings from purchased metal pipe--are classified in U.S. Industry 332996,
          Fabricated Pipe and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing plastics pipe fittings and couplings--are classified in U.S. Industry 326122, Plastics Pipe and
          Pipe Fitting Manufacturing.

33299     All Other Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fabricated metal products (except
forgings and stampings, cutlery and handtools, architectural and structural metal products, boilers, tanks, shipping
containers, hardware, spring and wire products, machine shop products, turned products, screws, nuts and bolts, and
metal valves).

Illustrative Examples:

Ammunition manufacturing
Ball and roller bearing manufacturing
Enameled iron and metal sanitary ware manufacturing
Fabricated pipe and pipe fittings made from purchased metal pipe
Foil container (except bags) manufacturing
Industrial pattern manufacturing
Metal safes manufacturing
Portable metal ladder manufacturing
Small arms and other ordnance manufacturing
Steel wool manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing forgings, stampings, and powder metallurgy parts--are classified in Industry 33211, Forging
          and Stamping;
      Manufacturing cutlery and handtools--are classified in Industry 33221, Cutlery and Handtool
          Manufacturing;

    Manufacturing architectural and structural metals--are classified in Industry Group 3323, Architectural and
        Structural Metals Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing boilers, tanks, and shipping containers--are classified in Industry Group 3324, Boiler, Tank,
        and Shipping Container Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing hardware and safe and vault locks--are classified in Industry 33251, Hardware
        Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing spring and wire products--are classified in Industry 33261, Spring and Wire Product
        Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing machine shop products, turned products, screws, and nuts and bolts--are classified in
        Industry Group 3327, Machine Shops; Turned Product; and Screw, Nut, and Bolt Manufacturing;
    Coating, engraving, heat treating and allied activities--are classified in Industry 33281, Coating, Engraving,
        Heat Treating, and Allied Activities;
    Manufacturing plain bearings--are classified in Industry 33361, Engine, Turbine, and Power Transmission
        Equipment Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing military tanks--are classified in Industry 33699, Other Transportation Equipment
        Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing guided missiles--are classified in Industry 33641, Aerospace Product and Parts
        Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing cast iron pipe and fittings--are classified in Industry 33151, Ferrous Metal Foundries;
    Manufacturing pipe system fittings (except cast iron couplings and couplings made from purchased pipe)
        and metal aerosol spray nozzles--are classified in Industry 33291, Metal Valve Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing welded and seamless steel pipes from purchased steel--are classified in Industry 33121, Iron
        and Steel Pipe and Tube Manufacturing from Purchased Steel;
    Manufacturing plastics plumbing fixtures and plastics portable chemical toilets--are classified in Industry
        32619, Other Plastics Product Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing vitreous and semivitreous pottery sanitary ware--are classified in Industry 32711, Pottery,
        Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing blasting caps, detonating caps, and safety fuses--are classified in Industry 32592, Explosives
        Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing fireworks--are classified in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product and Preparation
        Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing metal furniture frames--are classified in Industry 33721, Office Furniture (including
        Fixtures) Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing metal mechanically refrigerated drinking fountains--are classified in Industry 33341,
        Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing metal foil bags--are classified in Industry 32222, Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper
        Manufacturing;
    Manufacturing aluminum foil--are classified in Industry 33131, Alumina and Aluminum Production and
        Processing;
    Manufacturing metal foil (except aluminum)--are classified in Industry Group 3314, Nonferrous Metal
        (except Aluminum) Production and Processing; and
    Manufacturing metal burial vaults--are classified in Industry 33999, All Other Miscellaneous
        Manufacturing.

332991 Ball and Roller Bearing Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing ball and roller bearings of all
materials.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing plain bearings are classified in U.S. Industry 333613,
Mechanical Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing.

332992 Small Arms Ammunition Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing small arms ammunition.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing ammunition (except small arms)--are classified in U.S. Industry 332993, Ammunition
        (except Small Arms) Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing blasting and detonating caps and safety fuses--are classified in Industry 325920, Explosives
        Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing fireworks--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other Miscellaneous Chemical
        Product and Preparation Manufacturing.

332993 Ammunition (except Small Arms) Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing ammunition (except small arms).
Examples of products made by these establishments are bombs, depth charges, rockets (except guided missiles),
grenades, mines, and torpedoes.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing small arms ammunition--are classified in U.S. Industry 332992, Small Arms Ammunition
        Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing blasting and detonating caps and safety fuses--are classified in Industry 325920, Explosives
        Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing fireworks--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other Miscellaneous Chemical
        Product and Preparation Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing guided missiles--are classified in U.S. Industry 336414, Guided Missile and Space Vehicle
        Manufacturing.

332994 Small Arms, Ordnance, and Ordnance Accessories Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing small arms, other ordnance,
and/or ordnance accessories.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing military tanks--are classified in U.S. Industry 336992, Military Armored Vehicle, Tank, and
        Tank Component Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing guided missiles--are classified in U.S. Industry 336414, Guided Missile and Space Vehicle
        Manufacturing.

332996 Fabricated Pipe and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in fabricating, such as cutting, threading, and
bending metal pipes and pipe fittings made from purchased metal pipe.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing cast iron pipe and fittings--are classified in U.S. Industry 331511, Iron Foundries;
     Manufacturing pipe system fittings (except cast iron couplings)--are classified in U.S. Industry 332919,
        Other Metal Valve and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing welded and seamless steel pipes from purchased steel--are classified in Industry 331210,
        Iron and Steel Pipe and Tube Manufacturing from Purchased Steel.

332999 All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fabricated metal products (except
forgings and stampings, cutlery and handtools, architectural and structural metals, boilers, tanks, shipping
containers, hardware, spring and wire products, machine shop products, turned products, screws, nuts and bolts,
metal valves, ball and roller bearings, ammunition, small arms and other ordnances and accessories, and fabricated
pipes and pipe fittings).

Illustrative Examples:

Foil containers (except bags) manufacturing
Industrial pattern manufacturing
Metal hair curlers manufacturing
Metal ironing boards manufacturing
Metal pallets manufacturing
Metal pipe hangers and supports manufacturing
Metal safes manufacturing
Metal vaults (except burial) manufacturing
Permanent metallic magnets manufacturing
Portable metal ladders manufacturing
Sanitary ware (e.g., bathtubs, lavatories, sinks), metal and enameled metal, manufacturing
Steel wool manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing forgings and stampings--are classified in Industry 33211, Forging and Stamping;
      Manufacturing cutlery and handtools--are classified in Industry 33221, Cutlery and Handtool
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing architectural and structural metals--are classified in Industry Group 3323, Architectural and
          Structural Metals Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing boilers, tanks, and shipping containers--are classified in Industry Group 3324, Boiler, Tank,
          and Shipping Container Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing hardware and safe and vault locks--are classified in Industry 332510, Hardware
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing spring and wire products--are classified in Industry 33261, Spring and Wire Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing machine shop products, turned products, screws, and nut and bolt--are classified in Industry
          Group 3327, Machine Shops; Turned Product; and Screw, Nut, and Bolt Manufacturing;
      Coating, engraving, heat treating and allied activities--are classified in Industry 33281, Coating, Engraving,
          Heat Treating, and Allied Activities;
      Manufacturing ball and roller bearings--are classified in U.S. Industry 332991, Ball and Roller Bearing
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing small arms ammunition--are classified in U.S. Industry 332992, Small Arms Ammunition
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing ammunition (except small arms)--are classified in U.S. Industry 332993, Ammunition
          (except Small Arms) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing small firearms that are carried and fired by the individual and/or other ordnance and
          accessories--are classified in U.S. Industry 332994, Small Arms, Ordnance, and Ordnance Accessories
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal pipes and pipe fittings from metal pipe produced elsewhere--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 332996, Fabricated Pipe and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cast iron pipe and fittings--are classified in U.S. Industry 331511, Iron Foundries;
      Manufacturing welded and seamless steel pipes from purchased steel--are classified in Industry 331210,
          Iron and Steel Pipe and Tube Manufacturing from Purchased Steel;

      Manufacturing metal furniture frames--are classified in U.S. Industry 337215, Showcase, Partition,
          Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing powder metallurgy parts--are classified in U.S. Industry 332117, Powder Metallurgy Part
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal boxes--are classified in U.S. Industry 332439, Other Metal Container Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal nozzles, hose couplings, and aerosol valves--are classified in U.S. Industry 332919,
          Other Metal Valve and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal foil bags--are classified in Industry 322220, Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing aluminum foil--are classified in Industry 33131, Alumina and Aluminum Production and
          Processing;
      Manufacturing metal foil (except aluminum)--are classified in Industry Group 3314, Nonferrous Metal
          (except Aluminum) Production and Processing;
      Manufacturing metal burial vaults--are classified in U.S. Industry 339995, Burial Casket Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics plumbing fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 326191, Plastics Plumbing
          Fixture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing vitreous and semivitreous pottery sanitary ware--are classified in Industry 327110, Pottery,
          Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics portable chemical toilets--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics
          Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing metal mechanically refrigerated drinking fountains--are classified in U.S. Industry 333415,
          Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration
          Equipment Manufacturing.

333       Machinery Manufacturing       T



  Industries in the Machinery Manufacturing subsector create end products that apply mechanical force, for
example, the application of gears and levers, to perform work. Some important processes for the manufacture of
machinery are forging, stamping, bending, forming, and machining that are used to shape individual pieces of metal.
Processes, such as welding and assembling are used to join separate parts together. Although these processes are
similar to those used in metal fabricating establishments, machinery manufacturing is different because it typically
employs multiple metal forming processes in manufacturing the various parts of the machine. Moreover, complex
assembly operations are an inherent part of the production process.
  In general, design considerations are very important in machinery production. Establishments specialize in making
machinery designed for particular applications. Thus, design is considered to be part of the production process for
the purpose of implementing NAICS. The NAICS structure reflects this by defining industries and industry groups
that make machinery for different applications. A broad distinction exists between machinery that is generally used
in a variety of industrial applications (i.e., general purpose machinery) and machinery that is designed to be used in
a particular industry (i.e., special purpose machinery). Three industry groups consist of special purpose machinery--
Agricultural, Construction, and Mining Machinery Manufacturing; Industrial Machinery Manufacturing; and
Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing. The other industry groups make general-purpose
machinery: Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing;
Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing; Engine, Turbine, and Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing; and
Other General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing.

3331      Agriculture, Construction, and Mining Machinery Manufacturing          T



33311     Agricultural Implement Manufacturing         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing farm machinery and equipment,
powered mowing equipment and other powered home lawn and garden equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Combines (i.e., harvester-threshers) manufacturing

Cotton ginning machinery manufacturing
Fertilizing machinery, farm-type, manufacturing
Haying machines manufacturing
Milking machines manufacturing
Planting machines, farm-type, manufacturing
Plows, farm-type, manufacturing
Poultry brooders, feeders, and waterers manufacturing
Powered lawnmowers manufacturing
Snowblowers and throwers, residential-type, manufacturing
Tractors and attachments, lawn and garden-type and farm-type, manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing agricultural handtools and nonpowered lawnmowers--are classified in Industry 33221,
          Cutlery and Handtool Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing farm conveyors--are classified in Industry 33392, Material Handling Equipment
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing forestry machinery and equipment, such as brush, limb and log chippers; log splitters; and
          equipment--are classified in Industry 33312, Construction Machinery Manufacturing.

333111 Farm Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing agricultural and farm machinery
and equipment, and other turf and grounds care equipment, including planting, harvesting, and grass mowing
equipment (except lawn and garden-type).

Illustrative Examples:

Combines (i.e., harvester-threshers) manufacturing
Cotton ginning machinery manufacturing
Feed processing equipment, farm-type, manufacturing
Fertilizing machinery, farm-type, manufacturing
Haying machines manufacturing
Milking machines manufacturing
Planting machines, farm-type, manufacturing
Plows, farm-type, manufacturing
Poultry brooders, feeders, and waterers manufacturing
Tractors and attachments, farm-type, manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing farm conveyors--are classified in U.S. Industry 333922, Conveyor and Conveying
          Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing tractors and lawnmowers for home lawn and garden care--are classified in U.S. Industry
          333112, Lawn and Garden Tractor and Home Lawn and Garden Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing construction-type tractors--are classified in Industry 333120, Construction Machinery
          Manufacturing.

333112 Lawn and Garden Tractor and Home Lawn and Garden Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing powered lawnmowers, lawn and
garden tractors, and other home lawn and garden equipment, such as tillers, shredders, yard vacuums, and leaf
blowers.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing commercial mowing and other turf and grounds care equipment--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 333111, Farm Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing nonpowered lawn and garden shears, edgers, pruners, and lawnmowers--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 332216, Saw Blade and Handtool Manufacturing.

33312     Construction Machinery Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 333120 below.

333120 Construction Machinery Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing construction machinery, surface
mining machinery, and logging equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Backhoes manufacturing
Bulldozers manufacturing
Construction and surface mining-type rock drill bits manufacturing
Construction-type tractors and attachments manufacturing
Off-highway trucks manufacturing
Pile-driving equipment manufacturing
Portable crushing, pulverizing, and screening machinery manufacturing
Powered post hole diggers manufacturing
Road graders manufacturing
Surface mining machinery (except drilling) manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing drilling and underground mining machinery and equipment--are classified in Industry
          33313, Mining and Oil and Gas Field Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing industrial plant overhead traveling cranes, hoists, truck-type cranes and hoists, winches,
          aerial work platforms, and automotive wrecker hoists--are classified in Industry 33392, Material Handling
          Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing rail layers, ballast distributors and other railroad track-laying equipment--are classified in
          Industry 336510, Railroad Rolling Stock Manufacturing.

33313     Mining and Oil and Gas Field Machinery Manufacturing        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing oil and gas field and underground
mining machinery and equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Coal breakers, cutters, and pulverizers manufacturing
Core drills, underground mining-type, manufacturing
Mineral processing and beneficiating machinery manufacturing
Mining cars manufacturing
Oil and gas field-type derricks manufacturing
Oil and gas field-type drilling machinery and equipment (except offshore floating platforms) manufacturing
Stationary rock crushing machinery manufacturing
Water well drilling machinery manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing offshore oil and gas well drilling and production floating platforms--are classified in
        Industry 33661, Ship and Boat Building;
     Manufacturing surface mining machinery and equipment--are classified in Industry 33312, Construction
        Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing coal and ore conveyors--are classified in Industry 33392, Material Handling Equipment
        Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing underground mining locomotives--are classified in Industry 33651, Railroad Rolling Stock
        Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing pumps and pumping equipment--are classified in Industry 33391, Pump and Compressor
        Manufacturing.

333131 Mining Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing underground mining
machinery and equipment, such as coal breakers, mining cars, core drills, coal cutters, rock drills and (2)
manufacturing mineral beneficiating machinery and equipment used in surface or underground mines.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing surface mining machinery and equipment--are classified in Industry 333120, Construction
        Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing well-drilling machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333132, Oil and Gas Field
        Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing coal and ore conveyors--are classified in U.S. Industry 333922, Conveyor and Conveying
        Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing underground mining locomotives--are classified in Industry 336510, Railroad Rolling Stock
        Manufacturing.

333132 Oil and Gas Field Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing oil and gas field machinery
and equipment, such as oil and gas field drilling machinery and equipment; oil and gas field production machinery
and equipment; and oil and gas field derricks and (2) manufacturing water well drilling machinery.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing offshore oil and gas well drilling and production floating platforms--are classified in U.S.
        Industry 336611, Ship Building and Repairing;
     Manufacturing underground mining drills--are classified in U.S. Industry 333131, Mining Machinery and
        Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing pumps and pumping equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333911, Pump and Pumping
        Equipment Manufacturing.

3332    Industrial Machinery Manufacturing        T



33324   Industrial Machinery Manufacturing        T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing industrial machinery, such as food
and beverage manufacturing machinery, semiconductor manufacturing machinery, sawmill and woodworking
machinery (except handheld), machinery for making paper and paper products, printing and binding machinery and
equipment, textile making machinery, and machinery for making plastics and rubber products.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing agricultural and farm-type, construction, and mining machinery--are classified in Industry
         Group 3331, Agriculture, Construction, and Mining Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing food and beverage packaging machinery or power-driven handtools--are classified in
         Industry 33399, All Other General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing commercial and industrial refrigeration and freezer equipment--are classified in Industry
         33341, Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing commercial-type cooking and food warming equipment, automotive maintenance
         equipment (except mechanics' handtools), or photocopiers--are classified in Industry 33331, Commercial
         and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing mechanics' handtools and other nonpowered handtools--are classified in Industry 33221,
         Cutlery and Handtool Manufacturing.

333241 Food Product Machinery Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing food and beverage
manufacturing-type machinery and equipment, such as dairy product plant machinery and equipment (e.g.,
homogenizers, pasteurizers, ice cream freezers), bakery machinery and equipment (e.g., dough mixers, bake ovens,
pastry rolling machines), meat and poultry processing and preparation machinery, and other commercial food
products machinery (e.g., slicers, choppers, and mixers).

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing food and beverage packaging machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333993, Packaging
         Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing commercial and industrial refrigeration and freezer equipment--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 333415, Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial
         Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing commercial-type cooking and food warming equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry
         333318, Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing.

333242 Semiconductor Machinery Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wafer processing equipment,
semiconductor assembly and packaging equipment, and other semiconductor making machinery.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing printed circuit board manufacturing machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333249,
         Other Industrial Machinery Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing semiconductor testing instruments--are classified in U.S. Industry 334515, Instrument
         Manufacturing for Measuring and Testing Electricity and Electrical Signals.

333243 Sawmill, Woodworking, and Paper Machinery Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing sawmill and woodworking
machinery (except handheld), such as circular and band sawing equipment, planing machinery, and sanding
machinery, and/or (2) manufacturing paper industry machinery for making paper and paper products, such as pulp
making machinery, paper and paperboard making machinery, and paper and paperboard converting machinery.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing planes, axes, drawknives, and handsaws--are classified in U.S. Industry 332216, Saw Blade
         and Handtool Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing power-driven handtools--are classified in U.S. Industry 333991, Power-Driven Handtool
         Manufacturing; and

      Manufacturing printing machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333244, Printing Machinery and
          Equipment Manufacturing.

333244 Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing printing and bookbinding
machinery and equipment, such as printing presses, typesetting machinery, and bindery machinery.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing textile printing machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333249, Other Industrial
          Machinery Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing photocopiers--are classified in U.S. Industry 333316, Photographic and Photocopying
          Equipment Manufacturing.

333249 Other Industrial Machinery Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing industrial machinery (except
agricultural and farm-type; construction and mining machinery; food manufacturing-type machinery; semiconductor
making machinery; sawmill, woodworking, and paper making machinery; and printing machinery and equipment).

Illustrative Examples:

Chemical processing machinery and equipment manufacturing
Cigarette making machinery manufacturing
Glass making machinery (e.g., blowing, forming, molding) manufacturing
Petroleum refining machinery manufacturing
Plastics working machinery manufacturing
Rubber working machinery manufacturing
Sewing machines (including household-type) manufacturing
Shoe making and repairing machinery manufacturing
Tannery machinery manufacturing
Textile making machinery manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing agricultural and farm-type, construction, and mining machinery--are classified in Industry
          Group 3331, Agriculture, Construction, and Mining Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing food and beverage manufacturing-type machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333241,
          Food Product Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing semiconductor making machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333242, Semiconductor
          Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing sawmill, woodworking, and paper and paperboard making machinery--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 333243, Sawmill, Woodworking, and Paper Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing printing and bookbinding machinery and equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333244,
          Printing Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing automotive maintenance equipment (except mechanics' handtools)--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 333318, Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing mechanics' handtools--are classified in U.S. Industry 332216, Saw Blade and Handtool
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing industrial metal molds for plastics and rubber products making machinery--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 333511, Industrial Mold Manufacturing.

3333      Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing        T

33331    Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing commercial and service machinery,
such as optical instruments, photographic and photocopying equipment, automatic vending machinery, commercial
laundry and dry-cleaning machinery, office machinery, automotive maintenance equipment (except mechanics'
handtools), and commercial-type cooking equipment.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing household-type appliances--are classified in Industry Group 3352, Household Appliance
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing computer and peripheral equipment (including point-of-sale terminals and automatic teller
         machines (ATMs))--are classified in Industry 33411, Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing facsimile equipment--are classified in Industry 33421, Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing timeclocks, timestamps, and electron and proton microscopes--are classified in Industry
         33451, Navigational, Measuring, Electromedical, and Control Instruments Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing pencil sharpeners and staplers--are classified in Industry 33994, Office Supplies (except
         Paper) Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing sensitized film, paper, cloth, and plates, and prepared photographic chemicals--are classified
         in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing ophthalmic focus lenses--are classified in Industry 33911, Medical Equipment and Supplies
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing television and video cameras--are classified in Subsector 334, Computer and Electronic
         Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing coin-operated arcade games--are classified in Industry 33999, All Other Miscellaneous
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing mechanics' handtools--are classified in Industry 33221, Cutlery and Handtool
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing molded plastics lens blanks--are classified in Industry 32619, Other Plastics Product
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing molded glass lens blanks--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
         Manufacturing.

333314 Optical Instrument and Lens Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
optical instruments and lens, such as binoculars, microscopes (except electron, proton), telescopes, prisms, and
lenses (except ophthalmic); (2) coating or polishing lenses (except ophthalmic); and (3) mounting lenses (except
ophthalmic).

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing ophthalmic focus lenses--are classified in U.S. Industry 339115, Ophthalmic Goods
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing electron and proton microscopes--are classified in U.S. Industry 334516, Analytical
         Laboratory Instrument Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing molded plastics lens blanks--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics
         Product Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing molded glass lens blanks--are classified in U.S. Industry 327212, Other Pressed and Blown
         Glass and Glassware Manufacturing.

333316 Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing photographic and photocopying
equipment, such as cameras (except television and video), projectors, film developing equipment, photocopying
equipment, and microfilm equipment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing sensitized film, paper, cloth, and plates, and prepared photographic chemicals--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 325992, Photographic Film, Paper, Plate, and Chemical Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing photographic lenses--are classified in U.S. Industry 333314, Optical Instrument and Lens
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing television and video cameras--are classified in Subsector 334, Computer and Electronic
          Product Manufacturing.

333318 Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing commercial and service industry
equipment (except optical instruments and lenses, and photographic and photocopying equipment).

Illustrative Examples:

Calculators manufacturing
Carnival and amusement park rides manufacturing
Carwashing machinery manufacturing
Commercial-type coffee makers and urns manufacturing
Commercial-type cooking equipment (i.e., fryers, microwave ovens, ovens, ranges) manufacturing Industrial and
commercial-type vacuum cleaners manufacturing
Laundry machinery and equipment (except household-type) manufacturing
Mechanical carpet sweepers manufacturing
Motor vehicle alignment equipment manufacturing
Power washer cleaning equipment manufacturing
Teaching machines (e.g., flight simulators) manufacturing
Vending machines manufacturing
Water treatment equipment manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing optical instruments and lenses--are classified in U.S. Industry 333314, Optical Instrument
          and Lens Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing photographic and photocopying equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333316,
          Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household-type appliances--are classified in Industry Group 3352, Household Appliance
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing mechanics' handtools--are classified in U.S. Industry 332216, Saw Blade and Handtool
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing coin-operated arcade games--are classified in U.S. Industry 339999, All Other
          Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing computers and peripheral (including point-of-sale terminals and automatic teller machines
          (ATMs)) equipment--are classified in Industry 33411, Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing facsimile equipment--are classified in Industry 334210, Telephone Apparatus
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing timeclocks and timestamps--are classified in U.S. Industry 334519, Other Measuring and
          Controlling Device Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing pencil sharpeners, staplers, staple removers, hand paper punches, cutters, trimmers, and
          other hand office equipment--are classified in Industry 339940, Office Supplies (except Paper)
          Manufacturing.

3334      Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment
          Manufacturing    T



33341     Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment
          Manufacturing    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing ventilating, heating, air-conditioning,
and commercial and industrial refrigeration and freezer equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Air-conditioner filters manufacturing
Air-conditioning and warm air heating combination units manufacturing
Attic fans manufacturing
Dust and fume collecting equipment manufacturing
Gas fireplaces manufacturing
Heating boilers manufacturing
Industrial and commercial-type fans manufacturing
Refrigerated counter and display cases manufacturing
Refrigerated drinking fountains manufacturing
Space heaters (except portable electric) manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing household-type fans (except attic), portable electric space heaters, humidifiers,
          dehumidifiers, and air purification equipment--are classified in Industry 33521, Small Electrical Appliance
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household-type appliances, such as cooking stoves, ranges, refrigerators, and freezers--are
          classified in Industry 33522, Major Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing commercial-type cooking equipment--are classified in Industry 33331, Commercial and
          Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing industrial, power, and marine boilers--are classified in Industry 33241, Power Boiler and
          Heat Exchanger Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing industrial process furnaces and ovens--are classified in Industry 33399, All Other General
          Purpose Machinery Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing motor vehicle air-conditioning systems and compressors--are classified in Industry 33639,
          Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing.

333413 Industrial and Commercial Fan and Blower and Air Purification Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing stationary air purification
equipment, such as industrial dust and fume collection equipment, electrostatic precipitation equipment, warm air
furnace filters, air washers, and other dust collection equipment, and/or (2) manufacturing attic fans and industrial
and commercial fans and blowers, such as commercial exhaust fans and commercial ventilating fans.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing air-conditioning equipment (except motor vehicle)--are classified in U.S. Industry 333415,
          Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration
          Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle air-conditioning systems and compressors--are classified in Industry 336390,
          Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing household-type fans (except attic) and portable air purification equipment--are classified in
          Industry 335210, Small Electrical Appliance Manufacturing.

333414 Heating Equipment (except Warm Air Furnaces) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing heating equipment (except
electric and warm air furnaces), such as heating boilers, heating stoves, floor and wall furnaces, and wall and
baseboard heating units.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing warm air furnaces--are classified in U.S. Industry 333415, Air-Conditioning and Warm Air
          Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electric space heaters--are classified in Industry 335210, Small Electrical Appliance
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household-type cooking stoves and ranges--are classified in U.S. Industry 335221,
          Household Cooking Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing industrial, power, and marine boilers--are classified in Industry 332410, Power Boiler and
          Heat Exchanger Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing industrial process furnaces and ovens--are classified in U.S. Industry 333994, Industrial
          Process Furnace and Oven Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing commercial-type cooking equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333318, Other
          Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing.

333415 Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration
          Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing air-conditioning (except
motor vehicle) and warm air furnace equipment and/or (2) manufacturing commercial and industrial refrigeration
and freezer equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Air-conditioning and warm air heating combination units manufacturing
Air-conditioning compressors (except motor vehicle) manufacturing
Air-conditioning condensers and condensing units manufacturing
Dehumidifiers (except portable electric) manufacturing
Heat pumps manufacturing
Humidifying equipment (except portable) manufacturing
Refrigerated counter and display cases manufacturing
Refrigerated drinking fountains manufacturing
Snow making machinery manufacturing
Soda fountain cooling and dispensing equipment manufacturing

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing motor vehicle air-conditioning systems and compressors--are classified in Industry 336390,
          Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household-type refrigerators and freezers--are classified in U.S. Industry 335222,
          Household Refrigerator and Home Freezer Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing portable electric space heaters, humidifiers, and dehumidifiers--are classified in Industry
          335210, Small Electrical Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing heating boilers, heating stoves, floor and wall mount furnaces, and electric wall and
          baseboard heating units--are classified in U.S. Industry 333414, Heating Equipment (except Warm Air
          Furnaces) Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing furnace air filters--are classified in U.S. Industry 333413, Industrial and Commercial Fan
          and Blower and Air Purification Equipment Manufacturing.

3335      Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing           T



33351     Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metalworking machinery, such as
metal cutting and metal forming machine tools; cutting tools; and accessories for metalworking machinery; special
dies, tools, jigs, and fixtures; industrial molds; rolling mill machinery; assembly machinery; coil handling,
conversion, or straightening equipment; and wire drawing and fabricating machines.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing handtools (except power-driven), cutting dies (except metal cutting), sawblades, and
          handsaws--are classified in Industry 33221, Cutlery and Handtool Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing casting molds for heavy steel ingots--are classified in Industry 33151, Ferrous Metal
          Foundries; and
      Manufacturing power-driven handtools and welding and soldering equipment--are classified in Industry
          33399, All Other General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing.

333511 Industrial Mold Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing industrial molds for casting
metals or forming other materials, such as plastics, glass, or rubber.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing casting molds for steel ingots are classified in U.S. Industry
331511, Iron Foundries.

333514 Special Die and Tool, Die Set, Jig, and Fixture Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments, known as tool and die shops, primarily engaged in manufacturing
special tools and fixtures, such as cutting dies and jigs.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing molds for die-casting and foundry casting; and metal molds for plaster working, rubber
          working, plastics working, and glass working machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333511, Industrial
          Mold Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing molds for heavy steel ingots--are classified in U.S. Industry 331511, Iron Foundries; and
      Manufacturing cutting dies for materials other than metal--are classified in U.S. Industry 332216, Saw
          Blade and Handtool Manufacturing.

333515 Cutting Tool and Machine Tool Accessory Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing accessories and attachments for
metal cutting and metal forming machine tools.

Illustrative Examples:

Knives and bits for metalworking lathes, planers, and shapers manufacturing
Measuring attachments (e.g., sine bars) for machine tool manufacturing
Metalworking drill bits manufacturing
Taps and dies (i.e., machine tool accessories) manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing saw blades and handsaws or accessories and attachments for
cutting and forming machines (except metal cutting, metal forming machinery) are classified in U.S. Industry
332216, Saw Blade and Handtool Manufacturing.

333517 Machine Tool Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing metal cutting machine tools
(except handtools) and/or (2) manufacturing metal forming machine tools (except handtools), such as punching,
sheering, bending, forming, pressing, forging and die-casting machines.

Illustrative Examples:

Bending and forming machines, metalworking, manufacturing
Buffing and polishing machines, metalworking, manufacturing
Drilling machines, metalworking, manufacturing
Grinding machines, metalworking, manufacturing
Home workshop metal cutting machine tools (except handtools, welding equipment) manufacturing
Metalworking lathes manufacturing
Milling machines, metalworking, manufacturing
Stamping machines, metalworking, manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing welding and soldering equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333992, Welding and
          Soldering Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing power-driven handtools--are classified in U.S. Industry 333991, Power-Driven Handtool
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing rolling mill machinery and equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333519, Rolling Mill
          and Other Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing accessories and attachments for metal forming machine tools--are classified in U.S. Industry
          333515, Cutting Tool and Machine Tool Accessory Manufacturing.

333519 Rolling Mill and Other Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing

   This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing rolling mill machinery and
equipment and/or other metal working machinery (except industrial molds; special dies and tools, die sets, jigs, and
fixtures; cutting tools and machine tool accessories; and machine tools).

Illustrative Examples:

Assembly machines manufacturing
Cradle assemblies machinery (i.e., wire making equipment) manufacturing
Metalworking coil winding and cutting machinery manufacturing
Rolling mill roll machines, metalworking, manufacturing
Wire drawing and fabricating machinery and equipment (except dies) manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing industrial molds--are classified in U.S. Industry 333511, Industrial Mold Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal cutting and metal forming machine tools--are classified in U.S. Industry 333517,
          Machine Tool Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing special dies and tools, die sets, jigs, and fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 333514,
          Special Die and Tool, Die Set, Jig, and Fixture Manufacturing; and

      Manufacturing cutting tools and machine tool accessories--are classified in U.S. Industry 333515, Cutting
          Tool and Machine Tool Accessory Manufacturing.

3336      Engine, Turbine, and Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing            T



33361     Engine, Turbine, and Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing            T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing turbines, power transmission
equipment, and internal combustion engines (except automotive gasoline and aircraft).

Illustrative Examples:

Clutches and brakes (except electromagnetic industrial controls, motor vehicle) manufacturing
Diesel and semidiesel engines manufacturing
Electric outboard motors manufacturing
Plain bearings (except internal combustion engine) manufacturing
Plain bushings (except internal combustion engine) manufacturing
Power transmission pulleys manufacturing
Speed changers (i.e., power transmission equipment) manufacturing
Speed reducers (i.e., power transmission equipment) manufacturing
Turbine generator set units manufacturing
Universal joints (except aircraft, motor vehicle) manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing motor vehicle power transmission equipment--are classified in Industry 33635, Motor
          Vehicle Transmission and Power Train Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing aircraft engines and aircraft power transmission equipment--are classified in Industry
          33641, Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing ball and roller bearings--are classified in Industry 33299, All Other Fabricated Metal
          Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing gasoline automotive engines--are classified in Industry 33631, Motor Vehicle Gasoline
          Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing electric power transmission, electric power distribution equipment, generators, or prime
          mover generator sets (except turbines)--are classified in Industry 33531, Electrical Equipment
          Manufacturing.

333611 Turbine and Turbine Generator Set Units Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing turbines (except aircraft); and
complete turbine generator set units, such as steam, hydraulic, gas, and wind.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing aircraft turbines--are classified in U.S. Industry 336412, Aircraft Engine and Engine Parts
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing generators or prime mover generator sets (except turbines)--are classified in U.S. Industry
          335312, Motor and Generator Manufacturing.

333612 Speed Changer, Industrial High-Speed Drive, and Gear Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing gears, speed changers, and
industrial high-speed drives (except hydrostatic).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing motor vehicle power transmission equipment--are classified in Industry 336350, Motor
         Vehicle Transmission and Power Train Parts Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing aircraft power transmission equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 336413, Other
         Aircraft Parts and Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing industrial hydrostatic transmissions--are classified in U.S. Industry 333996, Fluid Power
         Pump and Motor Manufacturing.

333613 Mechanical Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing mechanical power transmission
equipment (except motor vehicle and aircraft), such as plain bearings, clutches (except motor vehicle and
electromagnetic industrial control), couplings, joints, and drive chains.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing motor vehicle power transmission equipment--are classified in Industry 336350, Motor
         Vehicle Transmission and Power Train Parts Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing aircraft power transmission equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 336413, Other
         Aircraft Parts and Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing ball and roller bearings--are classified in U.S. Industry 332991, Ball and Roller Bearing
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing gears, speed changers, and industrial high-speed drives (except hydrostatic)--are classified
         in U.S. Industry 333612, Speed Changer, Industrial High-Speed Drive, and Gear Manufacturing.

333618 Other Engine Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing internal combustion engines
(except automotive gasoline and aircraft).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing gasoline motor vehicle engines and motor vehicle transmissions--are classified in Industry
         Group 3363, Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing gasoline aircraft engines and aircraft transmissions--are classified in Industry 33641,
         Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing turbine and turbine generator sets units--are classified in U.S. Industry 333611, Turbine and
         Turbine Generator Set Units Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing speed changers and industrial high-speed drivers and gears--are classified in U.S. Industry
         333612, Speed Changer, Industrial High-Speed Drive, and Gear Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing mechanical power transmission equipment (except motor vehicle and aircraft)--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 333613, Mechanical Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing.

3339     Other General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing           T



33391    Pump and Compressor Manufacturing         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing pumps and compressors, such as
general purpose air and gas compressors, nonagricultural spraying and dusting equipment, general purpose pumps
and pumping equipment (except fluid power pumps and motors), and measuring and dispensing pumps.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing fluid power pumps and motors and handheld pneumatic spray guns--are classified in
         Industry 33399, All Other General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing;

     Manufacturing agricultural spraying and dusting equipment--are classified in Industry 33311, Agricultural
        Implement Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing laboratory vacuum pumps--are classified in Industry 33911, Medical Equipment and
        Supplies Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing pumps and air-conditioning systems and compressors for motor vehicles--are classified in
        Industry Group 3363, Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing air-conditioning systems and compressors (except motor vehicle)--are classified in Industry
        33341, Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing.

333911 Pump and Pumping Equipment Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing general purpose pumps and
pumping equipment (except fluid power pumps and motors), such as reciprocating pumps, turbine pumps,
centrifugal pumps, rotary pumps, diaphragm pumps, domestic water system pumps, oil well and oil field pumps and
sump pumps.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing fluid power pumps and motors--are classified in U.S. Industry 333996, Fluid Power Pump
        and Motor Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing measuring and dispensing pumps--are classified in U.S. Industry 333913, Measuring and
        Dispensing Pump Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing vacuum pumps (except laboratory)--are classified in U.S. Industry 333912, Air and Gas
        Compressor Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing laboratory vacuum pumps--are classified in U.S. Industry 339113, Surgical Appliance and
        Supplies Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing fluid pumps for motor vehicles, such as oil pumps, water pumps, and power steering
        pumps--are classified in Industry Group 3363, Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing.

333912 Air and Gas Compressor Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing general purpose air and gas
compressors, such as reciprocating compressors, centrifugal compressors, vacuum pumps (except laboratory), and
nonagricultural spraying and dusting compressors and spray gun units.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing refrigeration and air-conditioning (except motor vehicle) systems and compressors--are
        classified in U.S. Industry 333415, Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating Equipment and Commercial
        and Industrial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing motor vehicle air-conditioning systems and compressors--are classified in Industry 336390,
        Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing fluid power pumps and motors--are classified in U.S. Industry 333996, Fluid Power Pump
        and Motor Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing agricultural spraying and dusting equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333111, Farm
        Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing laboratory vacuum pumps--are classified in U.S. Industry 339113, Surgical Appliance and
        Supplies Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing handheld pneumatic spray guns--are classified in U.S. Industry 333991, Power-Driven
        Handtool Manufacturing.

333913 Measuring and Dispensing Pump Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing measuring and dispensing
pumps, such as gasoline pumps and lubricating oil measuring and dispensing pumps.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing pumps and pumping equipment for general industrial use are
classified in U.S. Industry 333911, Pump and Pumping Equipment Manufacturing.

33392     Material Handling Equipment Manufacturing           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing material handling equipment, such as
elevators and moving stairs; conveyors and conveying equipment; overhead traveling cranes, hoists, and monorail
systems; and industrial trucks, tractors, trailers, and stacker machinery.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing motor vehicle-type trailers--are classified in Industry 33621, Motor Vehicle Body and
          Trailer Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing farm-type tractors--are classified in Industry 33311, Agricultural Implement Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing construction-type tractors and cranes--are classified in Industry 33312, Construction
          Machinery Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing power transmission pulleys--are classified in Industry 33361, Engine, Turbine, and Power
          Transmission Equipment Manufacturing.

333921 Elevator and Moving Stairway Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing elevators and moving stairways.

Illustrative Examples:

Automobile lifts (i.e., garage-type, service station) manufacturing
Escalators manufacturing
Moving walkways manufacturing
Passenger and freight elevators manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing commercial conveyor systems and equipment are classified in
U.S. Industry 333922, Conveyor and Conveying Equipment Manufacturing.

333922 Conveyor and Conveying Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing conveyors and conveying
equipment, such as gravity conveyors, trolley conveyors, tow conveyors, pneumatic tube conveyors, carousel
conveyors, farm conveyors, and belt conveyors.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing passenger or freight elevators, dumbwaiters, and moving stairways--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 333921, Elevator and Moving Stairway Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing overhead traveling cranes and monorail systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 333923,
          Overhead Traveling Crane, Hoist, and Monorail System Manufacturing.

333923 Overhead Traveling Crane, Hoist, and Monorail System Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing overhead traveling cranes, hoists,
and monorail systems.

Illustrative Examples:

Aerial work platforms manufacturing
Automobile wrecker (i.e., tow truck) hoists manufacturing
Block and tackle manufacturing
Metal pulleys (except power transmission) manufacturing
Winches manufacturing

Cross-References.              Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing construction-type cranes--are classified in Industry 333120, Construction Machinery
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing aircraft loading hoists--are classified in U.S. Industry 333924, Industrial Truck, Tractor,
          Trailer, and Stacker Machinery Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing power transmission pulleys--are classified in U.S. Industry 333613, Mechanical Power
          Transmission Equipment Manufacturing.

333924 Industrial Truck, Tractor, Trailer, and Stacker Machinery Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing industrial trucks, tractors,
trailers, and stackers (i.e., truck-type) such as forklifts, pallet loaders and unloaders, and portable loading docks.

Cross-References.              Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing motor vehicle-type trailers--are classified in Industry 33621, Motor Vehicle Body and
          Trailer Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing farm-type tractors--are classified in U.S. Industry 333111, Farm Machinery and Equipment
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing construction-type tractors--are classified in Industry 333120, Construction Machinery
          Manufacturing.

33399     All Other General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing              T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing general purpose machinery (except
ventilation, heating, air-conditioning, and commercial refrigeration equipment; metal working machinery; engines,
turbines, and power transmission equipment; pumps and compressors; and material handling equipment).

Illustrative Examples:

Automatic fire sprinkler systems manufacturing
Bridge and gate lifting machinery manufacturing
Fluid power cylinders manufacturing
Fluid power pumps manufacturing
Hydraulic and pneumatic jacks manufacturing
Industrial-type furnaces manufacturing
Packaging machinery manufacturing
Power-driven handtools manufacturing
Scales manufacturing
Welding equipment manufacturing

Cross-References.              Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing ventilating, heating, air-conditioning (except motor vehicle), commercial refrigeration, and
        furnace filters--are classified in Industry 33341, Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial
        Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing metalworking machinery--are classified in Industry Group 3335, Metalworking Machinery
        Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing engine, turbine, and power transmission equipment--are classified in Industry Group 3336,
        Engine, Turbine, and Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing pumps and compressors--are classified in Industry 33391, Pump and Compressor
        Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing material handling equipment--are classified in Industry 33392, Material Handling
        Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing motor vehicle air-conditioning systems and compressors, engine filters, and pumps--are
        classified in Industry Group 3363, Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing metal cutting and metal forming machinery--are classified in Industry 33351, Metalworking
        Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing power driven heavy construction and mining hand operated tools, such as tampers and
        augers--are classified in Industries 33312, Construction Machinery Manufacturing and 33313, Mining and
        Oil and Gas Field Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing bakery ovens and industrial kilns, such as cement, wood, and chemical--are classified in
        Industry 33324, Industrial Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing mechanical jacks, handheld soldering irons, countersink bits, drill bits, router bits, milling
        cutters, and other machine tools for woodcutting--are classified in Industry 33221, Cutlery and Handtool
        Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing carnival amusement park equipment, automotive maintenance equipment, and coin-operated
        vending machines--are classified in Industry 33331, Commercial and Service Industry Machinery
        Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing transformers for arc-welding--are classified in Industry 33531, Electrical Equipment
        Manufacturing.

333991 Power-Driven Handtool Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing power-driven (e.g., battery,
corded, pneumatic) handtools, such as drills, screwguns, circular saws, chain saws, staplers, and nailers.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing metal cutting-type and metal forming-type machines (including home workshop)--are
        classified in Industry 33351, Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing countersink bits, drill bits, router bits, milling cutters, and other machine tools for
        woodcutting--are classified in U.S. Industry 332216, Saw Blade and Handtool Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing power-driven heavy construction or mining hand operated tools, such as tampers,
        jackhammers, and augers--are classified in Industry 333120, Construction Machinery Manufacturing and
        Industry 33313, Mining and Oil and Gas Field Machinery Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing powered home lawn and garden equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333112, Lawn
        and Garden Tractor and Home Lawn and Garden Equipment Manufacturing.

333992 Welding and Soldering Equipment Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing welding and soldering equipment
and accessories (except transformers), such as arc, resistance, gas, plasma, laser, electron beam, and ultrasonic
welding equipment; welding electrodes; coated or cored welding wire; and soldering equipment (except handheld).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing handheld soldering irons--are classified in U.S. Industry 332216, Saw Blade and Handtool
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing transformers for arc-welding--are classified in U.S. Industry 335311, Power, Distribution,
         and Specialty Transformer Manufacturing.

333993 Packaging Machinery Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing packaging machinery, such as
wrapping, bottling, canning, and labeling machinery.

333994 Industrial Process Furnace and Oven Manufacturing

 This U.S. Industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing industrial process ovens,
induction and dielectric heating equipment, and kilns (except cement, chemical, wood). Included in this industry are
establishments manufacturing laboratory furnaces and ovens.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing bakery ovens--are classified in U.S. Industry 333241, Food Product Machinery
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing cement, wood, and chemical kilns--are classified in U.S. Industry 333249, Other Industrial
         Machinery Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing cremating ovens--are classified in U.S. Industry 333999, All Other Miscellaneous General
         Purpose Machinery Manufacturing.

333995 Fluid Power Cylinder and Actuator Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fluid power (i.e., hydraulic and
pneumatic) cylinders and actuators.

333996 Fluid Power Pump and Motor Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fluid power (i.e., hydraulic and
pneumatic) pumps and motors.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing fluid pumps for motor vehicles, such as oil pumps, water pumps, and power steering
         pumps--are classified in Industry Group 3363, Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing general purpose pumps (except fluid power)--are classified in U.S. Industry 333911, Pump
         and Pumping Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing air compressors--are classified in U.S. Industry 333912, Air and Gas Compressor
         Manufacturing.

333997 Scale and Balance Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing scales and balances, including
those used in laboratories.

333999 All Other Miscellaneous General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing general purpose machinery
(except ventilating, heating, air-conditioning, and commercial refrigeration equipment; metal working machinery;
engines, turbines, and power transmission equipment; pumps and compressors; material handling equipment; power-

driven handtools; welding and soldering equipment; packaging machinery; industrial process furnaces and ovens;
fluid power cylinders and actuators; fluid power pumps and motors; and scales and balances).

Illustrative Examples:

Automatic fire sprinkler systems manufacturing
Baling machinery (e.g., paper, scrap metal) manufacturing
Bridge and gate lifting machinery manufacturing
Centrifuges, industrial- and laboratory-type, manufacturing
Cremating ovens manufacturing
General purpose-type sieves and screening equipment manufacturing
Hydraulic and pneumatic jacks manufacturing
Industrial and general line filters (except internal combustion engine, warm air furnace) manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing ventilating, heating, air-conditioning (except motor vehicle), and commercial refrigeration--
          are classified in Industry 33341, Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration
          Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle air-conditioning systems and compressors--are classified in Industry 336390,
          Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing material handling equipment--are classified in Industry 33392, Material Handling
          Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing power-driven handtools--are classified in U.S. Industry 333991, Power-Driven Handtool
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing welding and soldering equipment (except handheld soldering irons)--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 333992, Welding and Soldering Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing packaging machinery--are classified in U.S. Industry 333993, Packaging Machinery
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing bakery ovens--are classified in U.S. Industry 333241, Food Product Machinery Machinery
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cement, wood, and chemical kilns--are classified in U.S. Industry 333249, Other Industrial
          Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing industrial process furnaces and ovens (except bakery)--are classified in U.S. Industry
          333994, Industrial Process Furnace and Oven Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing fluid power cylinders and actuators--are classified in U.S. Industry 333995, Fluid Power
          Cylinder and Actuator Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing fluid power pumps and motors--are classified in U.S. Industry 333996, Fluid Power Pump
          and Motor Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing scales and balances--are classified in U.S. Industry 333997, Scale and Balance
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing carnival and amusement park equipment, automotive maintenance equipment and coin-
          operated vending machines--are classified in Industry 33331, Commercial and Service Industry Machinery
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle engine filters and pumps--are classified in Industry Group 3363, Motor
          Vehicle Parts Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing mechanical jacks--are classified in U.S. Industry 332216, Saw Blade and Handtool
          Manufacturing.

334       Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing         T



  Industries in the Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing subsector group establishments that manufacture
computers, computer peripherals, communications equipment, and similar electronic products, and establishments
that manufacture components for such products. The Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing industries
have been combined in the hierarchy of NAICS because of the economic significance they have attained. Their

rapid growth suggests that they will become even more important to the economies of all three North American
countries in the future, and in addition their manufacturing processes are fundamentally different from the
manufacturing processes of other machinery and equipment. The design and use of integrated circuits and the
application of highly specialized miniaturization technologies are common elements in the production technologies
of the computer and electronic subsector. Convergence of technology motivates this NAICS subsector.
Digitalization of sound recording, for example, causes both the medium (the compact disc) and the equipment to
resemble the technologies for recording, storing, transmitting, and manipulating data. Communications technology
and equipment have been converging with computer technology. When technologically-related components are in
the same sector, it makes it easier to adjust the classification for future changes, without needing to redefine its basic
structure. The creation of the Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing subsector assists in delineating new
and emerging industries because the activities that will serve as the probable sources of new industries, such as
computer manufacturing and communications equipment manufacturing, or computers and audio equipment, are
brought together. As new activities emerge, they are less likely therefore, to cross the subsector boundaries of the
classification.


3341     Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing              T



33411    Computer and Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing              T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and/or assembling electronic
computers, such as mainframes, personal computers, workstations, laptops, and computer servers; and computer
peripheral equipment, such as storage devices, printers, monitors, input/output devices and terminals. Computers
can be analog, digital, or hybrid. Digital computers, the most common type, are devices that do all of the following:
(1) store the processing program or programs and the data immediately necessary for the execution of the program;
(2) can be freely programmed in accordance with the requirements of the user; (3) perform arithmetical
computations specified by the user; and (4) execute, without human intervention, a processing program that requires
the computer to modify its execution by logical decision during the processing run. Analog computers are capable
of simulating mathematical models and comprise at least analog, control, and programming elements.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing digital telecommunications switches, local area network and wide area network
         communications equipment, such as bridges, routers, and gateways--are classified in Industry 33421,
         Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing blank magnetic and optical recording media--are classified in Industry 33461,
         Manufacturing and Reproducing Magnetic and Optical Media;
      Manufacturing machinery or equipment that incorporate electronic computers for operation or control
         purposes and embedded control applications--are classified in the Manufacturing sector based on the
         classification of the complete machinery or equipment;
      Manufacturing external audio speakers for computer use--are classified in Industry 33431, Audio and
         Video Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing internal loaded printed circuit board devices, such as sound, video, controller, and network
         interface cards; internal and external computer modems; and semiconductor storage devices--are classified
         in Industry 33441, Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing other parts, such as casings, stampings, cable sets, and switches, for computers, storage
         devices and other peripheral equipment--are classified in the Manufacturing sector based on their
         associated production processes.

334111 Electronic Computer Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and/or assembling electronic
computers, such as mainframes, personal computers, workstations, laptops, and computer servers. Computers can
be analog, digital, or hybrid. Digital computers, the most common type, are devices that do all of the following: (1)
store the processing program or programs and the data immediately necessary for the execution of the program; (2)

can be freely programmed in accordance with the requirements of the user; (3) perform arithmetical computations
specified by the user; and (4) execute, without human intervention, a processing program that requires the computer
to modify its execution by logical decision during the processing run. Analog computers are capable of simulating
mathematical models and contain at least analog, control, and programming elements. The manufacture of
computers includes the assembly or integration of processors, coprocessors, memory, storage, and input/output
devices into a user-programmable final product.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing digital telecommunications switches, local area network and wide area network
          communication equipment, such as bridges, routers, and gateways--are classified in Industry 334210,
          Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing blank magnetic and optical recording media--are classified in U.S. Industry 334613, Blank
          Magnetic and Optical Recording Media Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing machinery or equipment that incorporates electronic computers for operation or control
          purposes and embedded control applications--are classified in the Manufacturing sector based on the
          classification of the complete machinery or equipment;
      Manufacturing internal, loaded, printed circuit board devices, such as sound, video, controller, and network
          interface cards; internal and external computer modems; and solid state storage devices for computers--are
          classified in Industry 33441, Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing other parts, such as casings, stampings, cable sets, and switches, for computers--are
          classified in the Manufacturing sector based on their associated production processes; and
      Retailing computers with on-site assembly--are classified in U.S. Industry 443142, Electronics Stores.

334112 Computer Storage Device Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing computer storage devices that
allow the storage and retrieval of data from a phase change, magnetic, optical, or magnetic/optical media. Examples
of products made by these establishments are CD-ROM drives, floppy disk drives, hard disk drives, and tape storage
and backup units.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing blank magnetic and optical recording media--are classified in U.S. Industry 334613, Blank
          Magnetic and Optical Recording Media Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing semiconductor storage devices, such as memory chips--are classified in U.S. Industry
          334413, Semiconductor and Related Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing drive controller cards, internal or external to the storage device--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 334418, Printed Circuit Assembly (Electronic Assembly) Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing other parts, such as casings, stampings, cable sets, and switches, for computer storage
          devices--are classified in the Manufacturing sector based on their associated production processes.

334118 Computer Terminal and Other Computer Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing computer terminals and other
computer peripheral equipment (except storage devices).

Illustrative Examples:

Automatic teller machines (ATM) manufacturing
Computer terminals manufacturing
Joystick devices manufacturing
Keyboards, computer peripheral equipment, manufacturing
Monitors, computer peripheral equipment, manufacturing
Mouse devices, computer peripheral equipment, manufacturing

Optical readers and scanners manufacturing
Plotters, computer, manufacturing
Point-of-sale terminals manufacturing
Printers, computer, manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing local area network and wide area network communications equipment, such as bridges,
          routers, and gateways--are classified in Industry 334210, Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing computer storage devices--are classified in U.S. Industry 334112, Computer Storage Device
          Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing external audio speakers for computer use--are classified in Industry 334310, Audio and
          Video Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing internal, loaded, printed circuit board devices, such as sound, video, controller, and network
          interface cards; and internal and external computer modems used as computer peripherals--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 334418, Printed Circuit Assembly (Electronic Assembly) Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing digital cameras--are classified in U.S. Industry 333316, Photographic and Photocopying
          Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing other parts, such as casings, stampings, cable sets, and switches, for computer peripheral
          equipment--are classified in the Manufacturing sector based on their associated production processes.

3342      Communications Equipment Manufacturing          T



33421     Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 334210 below.

334210 Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wire telephone and data
communications equipment. These products may be standalone or board-level components of a larger system.
Examples of products made by these establishments are central office switching equipment, cordless telephones
(except cellular), PBX equipment, telephones, telephone answering machines, LAN modems, multi-user modems,
and other data communications equipment, such as bridges, routers, and gateways.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing internal and external computer modems, single-user fax/modems and electronic components
          used in telephone apparatus--are classified in Industry 33441, Semiconductor and Other Electronic
          Component Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing cellular telephones--are classified in Industry 334220, Radio and Television Broadcasting
          and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing.

33422     Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing              T

          See industry description for 334220 below.

334220 Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing radio and television broadcast and
wireless communications equipment. Examples of products made by these establishments are: transmitting and
receiving antennas, cable television equipment, GPS equipment, pagers, cellular phones, mobile communications
equipment, and radio and television studio and broadcasting equipment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing household-type audio and video equipment, such as televisions and radio sets--are classified
          in Industry 334310, Audio and Video Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing wired and nonwired intercommunications equipment (i.e., intercoms)--are classified in
          Industry 334290, Other Communications Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing equipment for measuring and testing communications signals--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 334515, Instrument Manufacturing for Measuring and Testing Electricity and Electrical Signals.

33429     Other Communications Equipment Manufacturing           T

          See industry description for 334290 below.

334290 Other Communications Equipment Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing communications equipment (except
telephone apparatus, and radio and television broadcast, and wireless communications equipment).

Illustrative Examples:

Fire detection and alarm systems manufacturing
Intercom systems and equipment manufacturing
Signals (e.g., highway, pedestrian, railway, traffic) manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing telephone apparatus--are classified in Industry 334210, Telephone Apparatus
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing radio and television broadcast and wireless communications equipment--are classified in
          Industry 334220, Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing automobile audio and related equipment--are classified in Industry 334310, Audio and
          Video Equipment Manufacturing.

3343      Audio and Video Equipment Manufacturing        T



33431     Audio and Video Equipment Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 334310 below.

334310 Audio and Video Equipment Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electronic audio and video equipment
for home entertainment, motor vehicles, and public address and musical instrument amplification. Examples of
products made by these establishments are video cassette recorders, televisions, stereo equipment, speaker systems,
household-type video cameras, jukeboxes, and amplifiers for musical instruments and public address systems.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing telephone answering machines--are classified in Industry 334210, Telephone Apparatus
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing photographic (i.e., still and motion picture) equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry
          333316, Photographic and Photocopying Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing phonograph needles and cartridges--are classified in Industry 33441, Semiconductor and
          Other Electronic Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing auto theft alarms--are classified in Industry 334290, Other Communications Equipment
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing mobile radios, such as citizens band and FM transceivers for household or motor vehicle
          uses; studio and broadcast video cameras; and cable decoders and satellite television equipment--are

         classified in Industry 334220, Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications
         Equipment Manufacturing.

3344     Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing             T



33441    Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing             T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing semiconductors and other components
for electronic applications. Examples of products made by these establishments are capacitors, resistors,
microprocessors, bare and loaded printed circuit boards, electron tubes, electronic connectors, and computer
modems.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing X-ray tubes--are classified in Industry 33451, Navigational, Measuring, Electromedical, and
         Control Instruments Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing glass blanks for electron tubes--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing telephone system components or modules--are classified in Industry 33421, Telephone
         Apparatus Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing finished products that incorporate loaded printed circuit boards--are classified in the
         Manufacturing sector based on the production process of making the final product;
     Manufacturing communications antennas--are classified in Industry 33422, Radio and Television
         Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing coils, switches, transformers, connectors, capacitors, rheostats, and similar devices for
         electrical applications--are classified in Subsector 335, Electrical Equipment, Appliance, and Component
         Manufacturing.

334412 Bare Printed Circuit Board Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing bare (i.e., rigid or flexible)
printed circuit boards without mounted electronic components. These establishments print, perforate, plate, screen,
etch, or photoprint interconnecting pathways for electric current on laminates.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Loading components onto printed circuit boards, or whose output is loaded printed circuit boards--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 334418, Printed Circuit Assembly (Electronic Assembly) Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing printed circuit laminates--are classified in U.S. Industry 334419, Other Electronic
         Component Manufacturing.

334413 Semiconductor and Related Device Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing semiconductors and related solid
state devices. Examples of products made by these establishments are integrated circuits, memory chips,
microprocessors, diodes, transistors, solar cells and other optoelectronic devices.

334416 Capacitor, Resistor, Coil, Transformer, and Other Inductor Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
electronic fixed and variable capacitors and condensers; (2) manufacturing electronic resistors, such as fixed and
variable resistors, resistor networks, thermistors, and varistors; and (3) manufacturing electronic inductors, such as
coils and transformers.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing electrical capacitors for power generation and distribution, heavy industrial equipment,
          induction heating and melting, and similar industrial applications--are classified in U.S. Industry 335999,
          All Other Miscellaneous Electrical Equipment and Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electronic rheostats--are classified in U.S. Industry 334419, Other Electronic Component
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing electrical transformers used in the generation, storage, transmission, transformation,
          distribution, and utilization of electrical energy--are classified in U.S. Industry 335311, Power,
          Distribution, and Specialty Transformer Manufacturing.

334417 Electronic Connector Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electronic connectors, such as
coaxial, cylindrical, rack and panel, pin and sleeve, printed circuit and fiber optic.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electrical connectors, such as plugs, bus bars, twist on wire
connectors and terminals, are classified in U.S. Industry 335931, Current-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing.

334418 Printed Circuit Assembly (Electronic Assembly) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in loading components onto printed circuit boards
or who manufacture and ship loaded printed circuit boards. Also known as printed circuit assemblies, electronics
assemblies, or modules, these products are printed circuit boards that have some or all of the semiconductor and
electronic components inserted or mounted and are inputs to a wide variety of electronic systems and devices.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing printed circuit laminates--are classified in U.S. Industry 334419, Other Electronic
          Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing bare printed circuit boards--are classified in U.S. Industry 334412, Bare Printed Circuit
          Board Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing telephone system components or modules--are classified in Industry 334210, Telephone
          Apparatus Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing finished products that incorporate loaded printed circuit boards--are classified in the
          Manufacturing sector based on the production process of making the final product.

334419 Other Electronic Component Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electronic components (except
bare printed circuit boards; semiconductors and related devices; electronic capacitors; electronic resistors; coils,
transformers and other inductors; connectors; and loaded printed circuit boards).

Illustrative Examples:

Crystals and crystal assemblies, electronic, manufacturing
Electron tubes manufacturing
LCD (liquid crystal display) unit screens manufacturing
Microwave components manufacturing
Piezolelectric devices manufacturing
Printed circuit laminates manufacturing
Switches for electronic applications manufacturing
Transducers (except pressure) manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing bare printed circuit boards--are classified in U.S. Industry 334412, Bare Printed Circuit
         Board Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing semiconductors, photonic integrated circuits, and/or silicon wave guides--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 334413, Semiconductor and Related Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electronic capacitors, electronic resistors, and electronic inductors--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 334416, Capacitor, Resistor, Coil, Transformer, and Other Inductor Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electronic connectors--are classified in U.S. Industry 334417, Electronic Connector
         Manufacturing;
      Loading components onto printed circuit boards or whose output is loaded printed circuit boards--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 334418, Printed Circuit Assembly (Electronic Assembly) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing communications antennas--are classified in Industry 334220, Radio and Television
         Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing X-ray tubes--are classified in U.S. Industry 334517, Irradiation Apparatus Manufacturing;
         and
      Manufacturing glass blanks for electron tubes--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
         Manufacturing.

3345     Navigational, Measuring, Electromedical, and Control Instruments Manufacturing           T



33451    Navigational, Measuring, Electromedical, and Control Instruments Manufacturing           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing navigational, measuring,
electromedical, and control instruments. Examples of products made by these establishments are aeronautical
instruments, appliance regulators and controls (except switches), laboratory analytical instruments, navigation and
guidance systems, and physical properties testing equipment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing global positioning system (GPS) equipment--are classified in Industry 33422, Radio and
         Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor control switches and relays (including timing relays)--are classified in Industry
         33531, Electrical Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing switches for appliances--are classified in Industry 33593, Wiring Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing optical instruments--are classified in Industry 33331, Commercial and Service Industry
         Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing glass watch and clock crystals--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
         Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics watch and clock crystals--are classified in Industry 32619, Other Plastics Product
         Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing medical thermometers and other nonelectrical medical apparatus--are classified in Industry
         Group 3391, Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing.

334510 Electromedical and Electrotherapeutic Apparatus Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electromedical and
electrotherapeutic apparatus, such as magnetic resonance imaging equipment, medical ultrasound equipment,
pacemakers, hearing aids, electrocardiographs, and electromedical endoscopic equipment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing medical irradiation apparatus--are classified in U.S. Industry 334517, Irradiation Apparatus
         Manufacturing; and

      Manufacturing nonelectrical medical and therapeutic apparatus--are classified in Industry Group 3391,
         Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing.

334511 Search, Detection, Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and Nautical System and Instrument
         Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing search, detection, navigation,
guidance, aeronautical, and nautical systems and instruments. Examples of products made by these establishments
are aircraft instruments (except engine), flight recorders, navigational instruments and systems, radar systems and
equipment, and sonar systems and equipment.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing global positioning system (GPS) equipment--are classified in Industry 334220, Radio and
         Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing aircraft engine instruments and meteorological systems and equipment--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 334519, Other Measuring and Controlling Device Manufacturing.

334512 Automatic Environmental Control Manufacturing for Residential, Commercial, and Appliance Use

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing automatic controls and regulators
for applications, such as heating, air-conditioning, refrigeration and appliances.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing industrial process controls--are classified in U.S. Industry 334513, Instruments and Related
         Products Manufacturing for Measuring, Displaying, and Controlling Industrial Process Variables;
      Manufacturing motor control switches and relays--are classified in U.S. Industry 335314, Relay and
         Industrial Control Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing switches for appliances--are classified in U.S. Industry 335931, Current-Carrying Wiring
         Device Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing appliance timers--are classified in U.S. Industry 334519, Other Measuring and Controlling
         Device Manufacturing.

334513 Instruments and Related Products Manufacturing for Measuring, Displaying, and Controlling
         Industrial Process Variables

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing instruments and related devices
for measuring, displaying, indicating, recording, transmitting, and controlling industrial process variables. These
instruments measure, display or control (monitor, analyze, and so forth) industrial process variables, such as
temperature, humidity, pressure, vacuum, combustion, flow, level, viscosity, density, acidity, concentration, and
rotation.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing instruments for measuring or testing of electricity and electrical signals--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 334515, Instrument Manufacturing for Measuring and Testing Electricity and Electrical
         Signals;
      Manufacturing medical thermometers--are classified in U.S. Industry 339112, Surgical and Medical
         Instrument Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing glass hydrometers and thermometers for other nonmedical uses--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 334519, Other Measuring and Controlling Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing instruments and instrumentation systems for laboratory analysis of samples--are classified
         in U.S. Industry 334516, Analytical Laboratory Instrument Manufacturing; and

      Manufacturing optical alignment and display instruments, optical comparators, and optical test and
         inspection equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333314, Optical Instrument and Lens Manufacturing.

334514 Totalizing Fluid Meter and Counting Device Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing totalizing (i.e., registering) fluid
meters and counting devices. Examples of products made by these establishments are gas consumption meters,
water consumption meters, parking meters, taxi meters, motor vehicle gauges, and fare collection equipment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing integrating meters and counters for measuring the characteristics of electricity and electrical
         signals--are classified in U.S. Industry 334515, Instrument Manufacturing for Measuring and Testing
         Electricity and Electrical Signals; and
      Manufacturing instruments and devices that measure, display, or control (i.e., monitor or analyze) related
         industrial process variables--are classified in U.S. Industry 334513, Instruments and Related Products
         Manufacturing for Measuring, Displaying, and Controlling Industrial Process Variables.

334515 Instrument Manufacturing for Measuring and Testing Electricity and Electrical Signals

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing instruments for measuring and
testing the characteristics of electricity and electrical signals. Examples of products made by these establishments
are circuit and continuity testers, voltmeters, ohm meters, wattmeters, multimeters, and semiconductor test
equipment.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electronic monitoring, evaluating, and other electronic support
equipment for navigational, radar, and sonar systems are classified in U.S. Industry 334511, Search, Detection,
Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and Nautical System and Instrument Manufacturing.

334516 Analytical Laboratory Instrument Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing instruments and instrumentation
systems for laboratory analysis of the chemical or physical composition or concentration of samples of solid, fluid,
gaseous, or composite material.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing instruments for monitoring and analyzing continuous samples from medical patients--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 334510, Electromedical and Electrotherapeutic Apparatus Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing instruments and related devices that measure, display, or control (i.e., monitor or analyze)
         industrial process variables--are classified in U.S. Industry 334513, Instruments and Related Products
         Manufacturing for Measuring, Displaying, and Controlling Industrial Process Variables.

334517 Irradiation Apparatus Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing irradiation apparatus and tubes
for applications, such as medical diagnostic, medical therapeutic, industrial, research and scientific evaluation.
Irradiation can take the form of beta-rays, gamma-rays, X-rays, or other ionizing radiation.

334519 Other Measuring and Controlling Device Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing measuring and controlling
devices (except search, detection, navigation, guidance, aeronautical, and nautical instruments and systems;
automatic environmental controls for residential, commercial, and appliance use; instruments for measurement,

display, and control of industrial process variables; totalizing fluid meters and counting devices; instruments for
measuring and testing electricity and electrical signals; analytical laboratory instruments; irradiation equipment; and
electromedical and electrotherapeutic apparatus).

Illustrative Examples:

Aircraft engine instruments manufacturing
Automotive emissions testing equipment manufacturing
Clocks assembling
Meteorological instruments manufacturing
Physical properties testing and inspection equipment manufacturing
Polygraph machines manufacturing
Radiation detection and monitoring instruments manufacturing
Surveying instruments manufacturing
Thermometers, liquid-in-glass and bimetal types (except medical), manufacturing
Watches and parts (except crystals) manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing medical thermometers--are classified in U.S. Industry 339112, Surgical and Medical
          Instrument Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing search, detection, navigation, guidance, aeronautical, and nautical systems and instruments--
          are classified in U.S. Industry 334511, Search, Detection, Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and
          Nautical System and Instrument Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing automatic controls and regulators for applications, such as heating, air-conditioning,
          refrigeration and appliances--are classified in U.S. Industry 334512, Automatic Environmental Control
          Manufacturing for Residential, Commercial, and Appliance Use;
      Manufacturing instruments and related devices that measure, display, or control (i.e., monitor or analyze)
          industrial process variables--are classified in U.S. Industry 334513, Instruments and Related Products
          Manufacturing for Measuring, Displaying, and Controlling Industrial Process Variables;
      Manufacturing totalizing (i.e., registering) fluid meters and counting devices, including motor vehicle
          gauges--are classified in U.S. Industry 334514, Totalizing Fluid Meter and Counting Device
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing instruments for measuring and testing the characteristics of electricity and electrical signals-
          -are classified in U.S. Industry 334515, Instrument Manufacturing for Measuring and Testing Electricity
          and Electrical Signals;
      Manufacturing instruments for laboratory analysis of the physical composition or concentration of samples
          of solid, fluid, gaseous, or composite materials--are classified in U.S. Industry 334516, Analytical
          Laboratory Instrument Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing X-ray apparatus, tubes, or related irradiation apparatus--are classified in U.S. Industry
          334517, Irradiation Apparatus Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electromedical and electrotherapeutic apparatus--are classified in U.S. Industry 334510,
          Electromedical and Electrotherapeutic Apparatus Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing glass watch and clock crystals--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics watch and clock crystals--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics
          Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing timing relays--are classified in U.S. Industry 335314, Relay and Industrial Control
          Manufacturing.

3346      Manufacturing and Reproducing Magnetic and Optical Media             T



33461     Manufacturing and Reproducing Magnetic and Optical Media             T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing optical and magnetic media, such
as blank audio tape, blank video tape, and blank diskettes, and/or (2) mass duplicating (i.e., making copies) audio,
video, software, and other data on magnetic, optical, and similar media.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Designing, developing, and publishing prepackaged software--are classified in Industry 51121, Software
          Publishers; and
      Audio, motion picture and/or video production and/or distribution--are classified in Subsector 512, Motion
          Picture and Sound Recording Industries.

334613 Blank Magnetic and Optical Recording Media Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing blank magnetic and optical
recording media, such as blank magnetic tape, blank diskettes, blank optical discs, hard drive media, and blank
magnetic tape cassettes.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in mass reproducing computer software and other audio and video material are
classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software and Other Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing.

334614 Software and Other Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in mass reproducing computer software or other
prerecorded audio and video material on magnetic or optical media, such as CD-ROMs, DVDs, tapes, or cartridges.
These establishments do not generally develop any software or produce any audio or video content. This industry
includes establishments that mass reproduce game cartridges.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Designing, developing, and publishing prepackaged software--are classified in Industry 511210, Software
          Publishers;
      Audio, motion picture and/or video production and/or distribution--are classified in Subsector 512, Motion
          Picture and Sound Recording Industries; and
      Manufacturing blank audio and video tape, blank diskettes, and blank optical discs--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 334613, Blank Magnetic and Optical Recording Media Manufacturing.


335       Electrical Equipment, Appliance, and Component Manufacturing               T



  Industries in the Electrical Equipment, Appliance, and Component Manufacturing subsector manufacture products
that generate, distribute and use electrical power. Electric Lighting Equipment Manufacturing establishments
produce electric lamp bulbs, lighting fixtures, and parts. Household Appliance Manufacturing establishments make
both small and major electrical appliances and parts. Electrical Equipment Manufacturing establishments make
goods, such as electric motors, generators, transformers, and switchgear apparatus. Other Electrical Equipment and
Component Manufacturing establishments make devices for storing electrical power (e.g., batteries), for transmitting
electricity (e.g., insulated wire), and wiring devices (e.g., electrical outlets, fuse boxes, and light switches).

3351      Electric Lighting Equipment Manufacturing         T



33511     Electric Lamp Bulb and Part Manufacturing         T

          See industry description for 335110 below.

335110 Electric Lamp Bulb and Part Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electric light bulbs and tubes, and
parts and components (except glass blanks for electric light bulbs).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing glass blanks for electric light bulbs--are classified in U.S. Industry 327212, Other Pressed
          and Blown Glass and Glassware Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing vehicular lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 336320, Motor Vehicle Electrical and
          Electronic Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing light emitting diodes (LEDs)--are classified in U.S. Industry 334413, Semiconductor and
          Related Device Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing other lighting fixtures (except vehicular)--are classified in Industry 33512, Lighting Fixture
          Manufacturing.

33512     Lighting Fixture Manufacturing     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electric lighting fixtures (except
vehicular), nonelectric lighting equipment, lamp shades (except glass and plastics), and lighting fixture components
(except current-carrying wiring devices).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing vehicular lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 33632, Motor Vehicle Electrical and
          Electronic Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electric light bulbs, tubes, and parts--are classified in Industry 33511, Electric Lamp Bulb
          and Part Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing current-carrying wiring devices for lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 33593,
          Wiring Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing ceiling fans or bath fans with integrated lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 33521,
          Small Electrical Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics lamp shades--are classified in Industry 32619, Other Plastics Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing glassware and glass parts for lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and
          Glass Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing signaling devices that incorporate electric light bulbs, such as traffic and railway signals--
          are classified in Industry 33429, Other Communications Equipment Manufacturing.

335121 Residential Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fixed or portable residential
electric lighting fixtures and lamp shades of metal, paper, or textiles. Residential electric lighting fixtures include
those for use both inside and outside the residence.

Illustrative Examples:

Ceiling lighting fixtures, residential, manufacturing
Chandeliers, residential, manufacturing
Table lamps (i.e., lighting fixtures) manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing glassware for residential lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass
          Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics lamp shades--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics Product
          Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing electric light bulbs, tubes, and parts--are classified in Industry 335110, Electric Lamp Bulb
          and Part Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing ceiling fans or bath fans with integrated lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 335210,
          Small Electrical Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing current-carrying wiring devices for lighting fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 335931,
          Current-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing commercial, industrial, and institutional electric lighting fixtures--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 335122, Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing other lighting fixtures, such as street lights, flashlights, and nonelectric lighting fixtures--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 335129, Other Lighting Equipment Manufacturing.

335122 Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing commercial, industrial, and
institutional electric lighting fixtures.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing glassware for commercial, industrial, and institutional electric lighting fixtures--are
          classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing residential electric lighting fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 335121, Residential
          Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing current-carrying wiring devices for lighting fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 335931,
          Current-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing vehicular lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 336320, Motor Vehicle Electrical and
          Electronic Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electric light bulbs, tubes, and parts--are classified in Industry 335110, Electric Lamp Bulb
          and Part Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing other lighting fixtures, such as street lights, flashlights, and nonelectric lighting equipment--
          are classified in U.S. Industry 335129, Other Lighting Equipment Manufacturing.

335129 Other Lighting Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electric lighting fixtures (except
residential, commercial, industrial, institutional, and vehicular electric lighting fixtures) and nonelectric lighting
equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Christmas tree lighting sets, electric, manufacturing
Fireplace logs, electric, manufacturing
Flashlights manufacturing
Insect lamps, electric, manufacturing
Lanterns (e.g., carbide, electric, gas, gasoline, kerosene) manufacturing
Spotlights (except vehicular) manufacturing
Street lighting fixtures (except traffic signals) manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing glassware for lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electric light bulbs, tubes, and parts--are classified in Industry 335110, Electric Lamp Bulb
          and Part Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing current-carrying wiring devices for lighting fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 335931,
          Current-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing residential electric lighting fixtures--are classified in U.S. Industry 335121, Residential
          Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing commercial, industrial, and institutional electric lighting fixtures--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 335122, Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing vehicular lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 336320, Motor Vehicle Electrical and
          Electronic Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing signaling devices that incorporate electric light bulbs, such as traffic and railway signals--
          are classified in Industry 334290, Other Communications Equipment Manufacturing.

3352      Household Appliance Manufacturing       T



33521     Small Electrical Appliance Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 335210 below.

335210 Small Electrical Appliance Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing small electric appliances and electric
housewares, household-type fans (except attic fans), household-type vacuum cleaners, and other electric household-
type floor care machines.

Illustrative Examples:

Bath fans, residential, manufacturing
Carpet and floor cleaning equipment, household-type electric, manufacturing
Ceiling fans, residential, manufacturing
Curling irons, household-type electric, manufacturing
Electric blankets manufacturing
Portable cooking appliances (except microwave, convection ovens), household-type electric, manufacturing
Portable electric space heaters manufacturing
Portable hair dryers, electric, manufacturing
Portable humidifiers and dehumidifiers manufacturing
Scissors, electric, manufacturing
Ventilating and exhaust fans (except attic fans), household-type, manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing attic fans--are classified in U.S. Industry 333413, Industrial and Commercial Fan and
          Blower and Air Purification Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing wall and baseboard heating units for permanent installation--are classified in U.S. Industry
          333414, Heating Equipment (except Warm Air Furnaces) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing room air-conditioners--are classified in U.S. Industry 333415, Air-Conditioning and Warm
          Air Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing microwave and convection ovens--are classified in U.S. Industry 335221, Household
          Cooking Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electric vacuum cleaners for commercial, industrial, and institutional uses, and mechanical
          carpet sweepers--are classified in U.S. Industry 333318, Other Commercial and Service Industry
          Machinery Manufacturing; and
      Installing central vacuum cleaning systems--are classified in Industry 238290, Other Building Equipment
          Contractors.

33522     Major Appliance Manufacturing      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing household-type cooking appliances,
household-type laundry equipment, household-type refrigerators, upright and chest freezers, and other electrical and
nonelectrical major household-type appliances, such as dishwashers, water heaters, and garbage disposal units.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing small electric appliances and electric housewares, such as hot plates, griddles, toasters, and
         electric irons--are classified in Industry 33521, Small Electrical Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing commercial and industrial refrigerators and freezers--are classified in Industry 33341,
         Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing commercial-type cooking equipment and commercial-type laundry, drycleaning, and
         pressing equipment--are classified in Industry 33331, Commercial and Service Industry Machinery
         Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing household-type sewing machines--are classified in Industry 33324, Industrial Machinery
         Manufacturing.

335221 Household Cooking Appliance Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing household-type electric and
nonelectric cooking equipment (except small electric appliances and electric housewares).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing small electric appliances and electric housewares used for cooking, such as electric skillets,
         electric hot plates, electric griddles, toasters, and percolators--are classified in Industry 335210, Small
         Electrical Appliance Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing commercial-type cooking equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333318, Other
         Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing.

335222 Household Refrigerator and Home Freezer Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing household-type refrigerators and
upright and chest freezers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing commercial and industrial refrigeration equipment, such as
refrigerators and freezers, are classified in U.S. Industry 333415, Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating
Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing.

335224 Household Laundry Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing household-type laundry
equipment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing portable electric irons--are classified in Industry 335210, Small Electrical Appliance
         Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing commercial-type laundry and drycleaning equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry
         333318, Other Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing.

335228 Other Major Household Appliance Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electric and nonelectric major
household-type appliances (except cooking equipment, refrigerators, upright and chest freezers, and household-type
laundry equipment).

Illustrative Examples:

Dishwashers, household-type, manufacturing
Garbage disposal units, household-type, manufacturing
Hot water heaters (including nonelectric), household-type, manufacturing
Trash and garbage compactors, household-type, manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing household-type cooking equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 335221, Household
          Cooking Appliance Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household-type sewing machines--are classified in U.S. Industry 333249, Other Industrial
          Machinery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household-type refrigerators and upright and chest freezers--are classified in U.S. Industry
          335222, Household Refrigerator and Home Freezer Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing small electric appliances--are classified in Industry 335210, Small Electrical Appliance
          Manufacturing.

3353      Electrical Equipment Manufacturing     T



33531     Electrical Equipment Manufacturing     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing power, distribution, and specialty
transformers; electric motors, generators, and motor generator sets; switchgear and switchboard apparatus; relays;
and industrial controls.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing turbine generator set units and electric outboard motors--are classified in Industry 33361,
          Engine, Turbine, and Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electronic component-type transformers and switches--are classified in Industry 33441,
          Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing environmental controls and industrial process control instruments--are classified in Industry
          33451, Navigational, Measuring, Electromedical, and Control Instruments Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing switches for electrical circuits, such as pushbutton and snap switches--are classified in
          Industry 33593, Wiring Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing complete welding and soldering equipment--are classified in Industry 33399, All Other
          General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing starting motors and generators for internal combustion engines--are classified in Industry
          33632, Motor Vehicle Electrical and Electronic Equipment Manufacturing.

335311 Power, Distribution, and Specialty Transformer Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing power, distribution, and specialty
transformers (except electronic components). Industrial-type and consumer-type transformers in this industry vary
(e.g., step up or step down) voltage but do not convert alternating to direct or direct to alternating current.

Illustrative Examples:

Distribution transformers, electric, manufacturing
Fluorescent ballasts (i.e., transformers) manufacturing
Substation transformers, electric power distribution, manufacturing
Transmission and distribution voltage regulators manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electronic component-type transformers are classified in U.S.
Industry 334416, Capacitor, Resistor, Coil, Transformer, and Other Inductor Manufacturing.

335312 Motor and Generator Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electric motors (except internal
combustion engine starting motors), power generators (except battery charging alternators for internal combustion
engines), and motor generator sets (except turbine generator set units). This industry includes establishments
rewinding armatures on a factory basis.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing electric outboard motors--are classified in U.S. Industry 333618, Other Engine Equipment
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing gas, steam, or hydraulic turbine generator set units--are classified in U.S. Industry 333611,
          Turbine and Turbine Generator Set Units Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing starting motors and battery charging alternators for internal combustion engines--are
          classified in Industry 336320, Motor Vehicle Electrical and Electronic Equipment Manufacturing;
      Rewinding armatures, not on a factory basis--are classified in Industry 811310, Commercial and Industrial
          Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair and Maintenance; and
      Manufacturing complete welding and soldering equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 333992,
          Welding and Soldering Equipment Manufacturing.

335313 Switchgear and Switchboard Apparatus Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing switchgear and switchboard
apparatus.

Illustrative Examples:

Circuit breakers, power, manufacturing
Control panels, electric power distribution, manufacturing
Duct for electrical switchboard apparatus manufacturing
Fuses, electric, manufacturing
Power switching equipment manufacturing
Switches, electric power (except pushbutton, snap, solenoid, tumbler), manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing relays--are classified in U.S. Industry 335314, Relay and Industrial Control Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing switches for electronic applications--are classified in U.S. Industry 334419, Other
          Electronic Component Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing snap, pushbutton, and similar switches for electrical circuits--are classified in U.S. Industry
          335931, Current-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing.

335314 Relay and Industrial Control Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing relays, motor starters and
controllers, and other industrial controls and control accessories.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing environmental and appliance control equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 334512,
          Automatic Environmental Control Manufacturing for Residential, Commercial, and Appliance Use; and

      Manufacturing instruments for controlling industrial process variables--are classified in U.S. Industry
          334513, Instruments and Related Products Manufacturing for Measuring, Displaying, and Controlling
          Industrial Process Variables.

3359      Other Electrical Equipment and Component Manufacturing            T



  This industry group comprises establishments manufacturing electrical equipment and components (except electric
lighting equipment, household-type appliances, transformers, switchgear, relays, motors, and generators).

33591     Battery Manufacturing     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing primary and storage batteries.

335911 Storage Battery Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing storage batteries.

Illustrative Examples:

Lead acid storage batteries manufacturing
Rechargeable nickel cadmium (NICAD) batteries manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing primary batteries are classified in U.S. Industry 335912,
Primary Battery Manufacturing.

335912 Primary Battery Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wet or dry primary batteries.

Illustrative Examples:

Disposable flashlight batteries manufacturing
Dry cells, primary (e.g., AAA, AA, C, D, 9V), manufacturing
Lithium batteries, primary, manufacturing
Watch batteries manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing storage batteries are classified in U.S. Industry 335911,
Storage Battery Manufacturing.

33592     Communication and Energy Wire and Cable Manufacturing             T



  This industry comprises establishments insulating fiber-optic cable, and manufacturing insulated nonferrous wire
and cable from nonferrous wire drawn in other establishments.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Drawing nonferrous wire--are classified in Subsector 331, Primary Metal Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing cable sets consisting of insulated wire and various connectors for electronic applications--
          are classified in Industry 33441, Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing extension cords, appliance cords, and similar electrical cord sets from purchased, insulated
          wire or cable--are classified in Industry 33599, All Other Electrical Equipment and Component
          Manufacturing; and

      Manufacturing unsheathed fiber-optic materials--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
          Manufacturing.

335921 Fiber Optic Cable Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing insulated fiber-optic cable from
purchased fiber-optic strand.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing unsheathed fiber-optic materials--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing insulated nonferrous wire and cable from purchased wire--are classified in U.S. Industry
          335929, Other Communication and Energy Wire Manufacturing.

335929 Other Communication and Energy Wire Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing insulated wire and cable of
nonferrous metals from purchased wire.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing cable sets consisting of insulated wire and various connectors for electronic applications--
          are classified in U.S. Industry 334419, Other Electronic Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing extension cords, appliance cords, and similar electrical cord sets from purchased insulated
          wire--are classified in U.S. Industry 335999, All Other Miscellaneous Electrical Equipment and
          Component Manufacturing;
      Drawing and insulating copper wire in the same establishment--are classified in Industry 331420, Copper
          Rolling, Drawing, Extruding, and Alloying;
      Drawing and insulating aluminum wire in the same establishment--are classified in U.S. Industry 331318,
          Other Aluminum Rolling, Drawing, and Extruding; and
      Drawing nonferrous wire (except copper and aluminum)--are classified in U.S. Industry 331491,
          Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum) Rolling, Drawing, and Extruding.

33593     Wiring Device Manufacturing      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing current-carrying wiring devices and
noncurrent-carrying wiring devices for wiring electrical circuits.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing ceramic and glass insulators--are classified in Subsector 327, Nonmetallic Mineral Product
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing electronic component-type connectors, sockets, and switches--are classified in Industry
          33441, Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing.

335931 Current-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing current-carrying wiring devices.

Illustrative Examples:

Bus bars, electrical conductors (except switchgear-type), manufacturing
GFCI (ground fault circuit interrupters) manufacturing
Lamp holders manufacturing

Lightning arrestors and coils manufacturing
Receptacles (i.e., outlets), electrical, manufacturing
Switches for electrical wiring (e.g., pressure, pushbutton, snap, tumbler) manufacturing

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing electronic component-type connectors--are classified in U.S. Industry 334417, Electronic
          Connector Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing noncurrent-carrying wiring devices--are classified in U.S. Industry 335932, Noncurrent-
          Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing electronic component-type sockets and switches--are classified in U.S. Industry 334419,
          Other Electronic Component Manufacturing.

335932 Noncurrent-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing noncurrent-carrying wiring
devices.

Illustrative Examples:

Boxes, electrical wiring (e.g., junction, outlet, switch), manufacturing
Conduits and fittings, electrical, manufacturing
Face plates (i.e., outlet or switch covers) manufacturing
Transmission pole and line hardware manufacturing

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing porcelain and ceramic insulators--are classified in Industry 327110, Pottery, Ceramics, and
          Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing current-carrying wiring devices--are classified in U.S. Industry 335931, Current-Carrying
          Wiring Device Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing glass insulators--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product Manufacturing.

33599     All Other Electrical Equipment and Component Manufacturing          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing electrical equipment (except electric
lighting equipment, household-type appliances, transformers, motors, generators, switchgear, relays, industrial
controls, batteries, communication and energy wire and cable, and wiring devices).

Illustrative Examples:

Carbon and graphite electrodes and brushes manufacturing
Extension cords made from purchased insulated wire
Surge suppressors manufacturing

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing lighting equipment--are classified in Industry Group 3351, Electric Lighting Equipment
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household-type appliances--are classified in Industry Group 3352, Household Appliance
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing transformers, motors, generators, switchgear, relays, and industrial controls--are classified
          in Industry 33531, Electrical Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing batteries--are classified in Industry 33591, Battery Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing communication and energy wire--are classified in Industry 33592, Communication and
          Energy Wire and Cable Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing current-carrying and noncurrent-carrying wiring devices--are classified in Industry 33593,
          Wiring Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing carbon or graphite gaskets--are classified in Industry 33999, All Other Miscellaneous
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electronic component-type rectifiers, voltage regulating integrated circuits, power
          converting integrated circuits, electronic capacitors, electronic resistors, and similar devices--are classified
          in Industry 33441, Semiconductor and Other Electronic Component Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing equipment incorporating lasers--are classified in various subsectors of manufacturing based
          on the associated production process of the finished equipment.

335991 Carbon and Graphite Product Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing carbon, graphite, and metal-
graphite brushes and brush stock; carbon or graphite electrodes for thermal and electrolytic uses; carbon and
graphite fibers; and other carbon, graphite, and metal-graphite products.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing carbon or graphite gaskets are classified in U.S. Industry
339991, Gasket, Packing, and Sealing Device Manufacturing.

335999 All Other Miscellaneous Electrical Equipment and Component Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing industrial and commercial
electric apparatus and other equipment (except lighting equipment, household appliances, transformers, motors,
generators, switchgear, relays, industrial controls, batteries, communication and energy wire and cable, wiring
devices, and carbon and graphite products). This industry includes power converters (i.e., AC to DC and DC to
AC), power supplies, surge suppressors, and similar equipment for industrial-type and consumer-type equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Appliance cords made from purchased insulated wire
Battery chargers, solid-state, manufacturing
Door opening and closing devices, electrical, manufacturing
Electric bells manufacturing
Extension cords made from purchased insulated wire
Inverters manufacturing
Surge suppressers manufacturing
Uninterruptible power supplies (UPS) manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing lighting equipment--are classified in Industry Group 3351, Electric Lighting Equipment
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing household-type appliances--are classified in Industry Group 3352, Household Appliance
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing transformers, motors, generators, switchgear, relays, and industrial controls--are classified
          in Industry 33531, Electrical Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing primary and storage batteries--are classified in Industry 33591, Battery Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing communication and energy wire and cable from purchased wire or fiber-optic strand--are
          classified in Industry 33592, Communication and Energy Wire and Cable Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing current-carrying and noncurrent-carrying wiring devices--are classified in Industry 33593,
          Wiring Device Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing electronic component-type rectifiers (except semiconductor)--are classified in U.S. Industry
         334419, Other Electronic Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing semiconductor rectifiers, voltage regulating integrated circuits, power converting integrated
         circuits, and similar semiconductor devices--are classified in U.S. Industry 334413, Semiconductor and
         Related Device Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electronic component-type capacitors and condensers--are classified in U.S. Industry
         334416, Capacitor, Resistor, Coil, Transformer, and Other Inductor Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing carbon and graphite products--are classified in U.S. Industry 335991, Carbon and Graphite
         Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing equipment incorporating lasers--are classified in various manufacturing subsectors based on
         the associated production process of the finished equipment.

336      Transportation Equipment Manufacturing         T



  Industries in the Transportation Equipment Manufacturing subsector produce equipment for transporting people
and goods. Transportation equipment is a type of machinery. An entire subsector is devoted to this activity because
of the significance of its economic size in all three North American countries.
  Establishments in this subsector utilize production processes similar to those of other machinery manufacturing
establishments--bending, forming, welding, machining, and assembling metal or plastic parts into components and
finished products. However, the assembly of components and subassemblies and their further assembly into
finished vehicles tends to be a more common production process in this subsector than in the Machinery
Manufacturing subsector.
  NAICS has industry groups for the manufacture of equipment for each mode of transport--road, rail, air and
water. Parts for motor vehicles warrant a separate industry group because of their importance and because parts
manufacture requires less assembly, and the establishments that manufacture only parts are not as vertically
integrated as those that make complete vehicles.
  Land use motor vehicle equipment not designed for highway operation (e.g., agricultural equipment, construction
equipment, and materials handling equipment) is classified in the appropriate NAICS subsector based on the type
and use of the equipment.

3361     Motor Vehicle Manufacturing      T



33611    Automobile and Light Duty Motor Vehicle Manufacturing           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing complete automobile and light
duty motor vehicles (i.e., body and chassis or unibody) or (2) manufacturing chassis only.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing car, truck, and bus bodies and assembling vehicles on a
purchased chassis and manufacturing kit cars for highway use are classified in Industry 33621, Motor Vehicle Body
and Trailer Manufacturing.

336111 Automobile Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing complete automobiles (i.e.,
body and chassis or unibody) or (2) manufacturing automobile chassis only.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing car bodies and assembling vehicles on a purchased chassis and
manufacturing kit cars for highway use are classified in U.S. Industry 336211, Motor Vehicle Body Manufacturing.

336112 Light Truck and Utility Vehicle Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing complete light trucks and
utility vehicles (i.e., body and chassis) or (2) manufacturing light truck and utility vehicle chassis only. Vehicles
made include light duty vans, pick-up trucks, minivans, and sport utility vehicles.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing truck and bus bodies and assembling vehicles on a purchased
chassis are classified in U.S. Industry 336211, Motor Vehicle Body Manufacturing.

33612     Heavy Duty Truck Manufacturing         T

          See industry description for 336120 below.

336120 Heavy Duty Truck Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing heavy duty truck chassis and
assembling complete heavy duty trucks, buses, heavy duty motor homes, and other special purpose heavy duty
motor vehicles for highway use or (2) manufacturing heavy duty truck chassis only.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing truck and bus bodies and assembling vehicles on a purchased chassis--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 336211, Motor Vehicle Body Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor homes on purchased chassis--are classified in U.S. Industry 336213, Motor Home
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing vans, minivans, and light trucks--are classified in U.S. Industry 336112, Light Truck and
          Utility Vehicle Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing military armored vehicles--are classified in U.S. Industry 336992, Military Armored
          Vehicle, Tank, and Tank Component Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing off highway construction equipment--are classified in Industry 333120, Construction
          Machinery Manufacturing.

3362      Motor Vehicle Body and Trailer Manufacturing        T



33621     Motor Vehicle Body and Trailer Manufacturing        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing motor vehicle bodies and cabs or
(2) manufacturing truck, automobile and utility trailers, truck trailer chassis, detachable trailer bodies, and
detachable trailer chassis. The products made may be sold separately or may be assembled on purchased chassis and
sold as complete vehicles.
  Motor homes are units where the motor and the living quarters are contained in the same integrated unit, while
travel trailers are designed to be towed by a motor unit, such as an automobile or a light truck.

Illustrative Examples:

Bodies and cabs, truck, manufacturing
Camper unit, slide-in, for pick-up trucks, manufacturing
Motor homes, self-contained, assembling on purchased chassis
Pickup canopies, caps, or covers manufacturing
Semitrailer manufacturing
Travel trailers, recreational, manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Making manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes)--are classified in Industry 32199, All Other Wood
          Product Manufacturing;

      Customizing automotive vehicle and trailer interiors (i.e., van conversions) on an individual basis--are
          classified in Industry 81112, Automotive Body, Paint, Interior, and Glass Repair;
      Manufacturing light duty motor home chassis and assembling complete motor homes--are classified in
          Industry 33611, Automobile and Light Duty Motor Vehicle Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing heavy duty truck chassis and assembling heavy duty trucks, buses, motor homes, and other
          special purpose heavy duty motor vehicles for highway use--are classified in Industry 33612, Heavy Duty
          Truck Manufacturing.

336211 Motor Vehicle Body Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing truck and bus bodies and cabs
and automobile bodies. The products made may be sold separately or may be assembled on purchased chassis and
sold as complete vehicles.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing heavy duty chassis and assembling heavy duty trucks, buses,
motor homes, and other special purpose heavy duty motor vehicles for highway use are classified in Industry
336120, Heavy Duty Truck Manufacturing.

336212 Truck Trailer Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing truck trailers, truck trailer
chassis, cargo container chassis, detachable trailer bodies, and detachable trailer chassis for sale separately.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing utility trailers, light-truck trailers, and travel trailers are
classified in U.S. Industry 336214, Travel Trailer and Camper Manufacturing.

336213 Motor Home Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing motor homes on purchased
chassis and/or (2) manufacturing conversion vans on an assembly line basis. Motor homes are units where the motor
and the living quarters are integrated in the same unit.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing light duty motor home chassis and assembling complete motor homes--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 336112, Light Truck and Utility Vehicle Manufacturing;
      Customizing automotive vehicle and trailer interiors (i.e., van conversions) on an individual basis--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 811121, Automotive Body, Paint, and Interior Repair and Maintenance; and
      Producing manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes)--are classified in U.S. Industry 321991, Manufactured
          Home (Mobile Home) Manufacturing.

336214 Travel Trailer and Camper Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
travel trailers and campers designed to attach to motor vehicles; (2) manufacturing pickup coaches (i.e., campers)
and caps (i.e., covers) for mounting on pickup trucks; and (3) manufacturing automobile, utility and light-truck
trailers. Travel trailers do not have their own motor but are designed to be towed by a motor unit, such as an
automobile or a light truck.

Illustrative Examples:

Automobile transporter trailers, single car, manufacturing
Camping trailers and chassis manufacturing
Horse trailers (except fifth wheel type) manufacturing
Travel trailers, recreational, manufacturing
Utility trailers manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in making manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes) designed to accept
permanent water, sewer, and utility connections and equipped with wheels, but not intended for regular highway
use, are classified in U.S. Industry 321991, Manufactured Home (Mobile Home) Manufacturing.

3363      Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing     T



33631     Motor Vehicle Gasoline Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 336310 below.

336310 Motor Vehicle Gasoline Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing

   This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing and/or rebuilding motor vehicle
gasoline engines and engine parts and/or (2) manufacturing and/or rebuilding carburetors, pistons, piston rings, and
engine valves, whether or not for vehicular use.

Illustrative Examples:

Carburetors, all types, manufacturing
Crankshaft assemblies, automotive and truck gasoline engine, manufacturing
Cylinder heads, automotive and truck gasoline engine, manufacturing
Fuel injection systems and parts, automotive and truck gasoline engine, manufacturing
Manifolds (i.e., intake and exhaust), automotive and truck gasoline engine, manufacturing
Pistons and piston rings manufacturing
Pumps (e.g., fuel, oil, water), mechanical automotive and truck gasoline engine (except power steering),
manufacturing
Timing gears and chains, automotive and truck gasoline engine, manufacturing
Valves, engine, intake and exhaust, manufacturing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing wiring harnesses and other vehicular electrical and electronic equipment--are classified in
          Industry 336320, Motor Vehicle Electrical and Electronic Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing transmission and power train equipment--are classified in Industry 336350, Motor Vehicle
          Transmission and Power Train Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing radiators--are classified in Industry 336390, Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing steering and suspension components--are classified in Industry 336330, Motor Vehicle
          Steering and Suspension Components (except Spring) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing parts for machine repair and equipment parts (except electric) on a job or shop basis--are
          classified in Industry 332710, Machine Shops;
      Manufacturing rubber and plastic belts and hoses without fittings--are classified in Industry 326220,
          Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing stationary and diesel engines--are classified in U.S. Industry 333618, Other Engine
          Equipment Manufacturing.

33632     Motor Vehicle Electrical and Electronic Equipment Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 336320 below.

336320 Motor Vehicle Electrical and Electronic Equipment Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and/or rebuilding electrical and
electronic equipment for motor vehicles and internal combustion engines. The products made can be used for all
types of transportation equipment (i.e., aircraft, automobiles, trucks, trains, ships) or stationary internal combustion
engine applications.

Illustrative Examples:

Alternators and generators for internal combustion engines manufacturing
Automotive lighting fixtures manufacturing
Coils, ignition, internal combustion engines, manufacturing
Distributors for internal combustion engines manufacturing
Electrical ignition cable sets for internal combustion engines manufacturing
Generators for internal combustion engines manufacturing
Ignition wiring harness for internal combustion engines manufacturing
Instrument control panels (i.e., assembling purchased gauges), automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Spark plugs for internal combustion engines manufacturing
Windshield washer pumps, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing automotive lamps (i.e., bulbs)--are classified in Industry 335110, Electric Lamp Bulb and
          Part Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing automotive batteries--are classified in U.S. Industry 335911, Storage Battery
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing electric motors for electric vehicles--are classified in U.S. Industry 335312, Motor and
          Generator Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing railway traffic control signals and passenger car alarms--are classified in Industry 334290,
          Other Communications Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing car stereos--are classified in Industry 334310, Audio and Video Equipment Manufacturing.

33633     Motor Vehicle Steering and Suspension Components (except Spring) Manufacturing                T

          See industry description for 336330 below.

336330 Motor Vehicle Steering and Suspension Components (except Spring) Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and/or rebuilding motor vehicle
steering mechanisms and suspension components (except springs).

Illustrative Examples:

Rack and pinion steering assemblies manufacturing
Shock absorbers, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Steering columns, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Steering wheels, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Struts, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing springs are classified in Industry 33261, Spring and Wire
Product Manufacturing.

33634     Motor Vehicle Brake System Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 336340 below.

336340 Motor Vehicle Brake System Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and/or rebuilding motor vehicle brake
systems and related components.

Illustrative Examples:

Brake cylinders, master and wheel, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Brake drums, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Brake hose assemblies manufacturing
Brake pads and shoes, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Calipers, brake, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing rubber and plastics belts and hoses without fittings are
classified in Industry 326220, Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting Manufacturing.

33635     Motor Vehicle Transmission and Power Train Parts Manufacturing        T

          See industry description for 336350 below.

336350 Motor Vehicle Transmission and Power Train Parts Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and/or rebuilding motor vehicle
transmissions and power train parts.

Illustrative Examples:

Automatic transmissions, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Axle bearings, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Constant velocity joints, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Differential and rear axle assemblies, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Torque converters, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Universal joints, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing

33636     Motor Vehicle Seating and Interior Trim Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 336360 below.

336360 Motor Vehicle Seating and Interior Trim Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing motor vehicle seating, seats, seat
frames, seat belts, and interior trimmings.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing convertible tops for vehicles and those manufacturing air bags
are classified in Industry 336390, Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing.

33637     Motor Vehicle Metal Stamping     T

          See industry description for 336370 below.

336370 Motor Vehicle Metal Stamping

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing motor vehicle stampings, such as
fenders, tops, body parts, trim, and molding.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing stampings and further processing the stampings--are classified according to the process of
          the specific product made; and
      Manufacturing stampings (except motor vehicle)--are classified in U.S. Industry 332119, Metal Crown,
          Closure, and Other Metal Stamping (except Automotive).

33639     Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing      T

          See industry description for 336390 below.

336390 Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing and/or rebuilding motor vehicle parts
and accessories (except motor vehicle gasoline engines and engine parts, motor vehicle electrical and electronic
equipment, motor vehicle steering and suspension components, motor vehicle brake systems, motor vehicle
transmissions and power train parts, motor vehicle seating and interior trim, and motor vehicle stampings).

Illustrative Examples:

Air bag assemblies manufacturing
Air-conditioners, motor vehicle, manufacturing
Air-filters, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Catalytic converters, engine exhaust, automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing
Compressors, motor vehicle air-conditioning, manufacturing
Mufflers and resonators, motor vehicle, manufacturing
Radiators and cores manufacturing
Wheels (i.e., rims), automotive, truck, and bus, manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing motor vehicle gasoline engines and engine parts--are classified in Industry 336310, Motor
          Vehicle Gasoline Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle electrical and electronic equipment--are classified in Industry 336320, Motor
          Vehicle Electrical and Electronic Equipment Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle steering and suspension components--are classified in Industry 336330,
          Motor Vehicle Steering and Suspension Components (except Spring) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle brake systems--are classified in Industry 336340, Motor Vehicle Brake
          System Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle transmissions and power train parts--are classified in Industry 336350, Motor
          Vehicle Transmission and Power Train Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle seating and interior trim--are classified in Industry 336360, Motor Vehicle
          Seating and Interior Trim Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle stampings--are classified in Industry 336370, Motor Vehicle Metal Stamping;
          and
      Manufacturing air-conditioning systems and compressors (except motor vehicle air-conditioning systems)--
          are classified in U.S. Industry 333415, Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating Equipment and
          Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing.

3364      Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing       T



33641     Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
complete aircraft, missiles, or space vehicles; (2) manufacturing aerospace engines, propulsion units, auxiliary
equipment or parts; (3) developing and making prototypes of aerospace products; (4) aircraft conversion (i.e., major

modifications to systems); and (5) complete aircraft or propulsion systems overhaul and rebuilding (i.e., periodic
restoration of aircraft to original design specifications).

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing space satellites are classified in Industry 33422, Radio
          and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in the repair of aircraft or aircraft engines (except overhauling,
          conversion, and rebuilding) are classified in Industry 48819, Other Support Activities for Air
          Transportation;
     Research and development establishments primarily engaged in aerospace R&D (except prototype
          production) are classified in Industry 54171, Research and Development in the Physical, Engineering, and
          Life Sciences;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing aircraft engine intake and exhaust valves, pistons, or
          engine filters are classified in Industry 33631, Motor Vehicle Gasoline Engine and Engine Parts
          Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing of aircraft seating are classified in Industry 33636,
          Motor Vehicle Seating and Interior Trim Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing aeronautical, navigational, and guidance systems and
          instruments are classified in Industry 33451, Navigational, Measuring, Electromedical, and Control
          Instruments Manufacturing;
     Establishment primarily engaged in manufacturing aircraft engine electrical (aeronautical electrical)
          equipment or aircraft lighting fixtures are classified in Industry 33632, Motor Vehicle Electrical and
          Electronic Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing of aircraft fluid power subassemblies are classified in
          Industry 33291, Metal Valve Manufacturing.

336411 Aircraft Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
or assembling complete aircraft; (2) developing and making aircraft prototypes; (3) aircraft conversion (i.e., major
modifications to systems); and (4) complete aircraft overhaul and rebuilding (i.e., periodic restoration of aircraft to
original design specifications).

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing guided missiles and space vehicles are classified in
          U.S. Industry 336414, Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in the repair of aircraft (except overhauling, conversion, and rebuilding)
          are classified in Industry 488190, Other Support Activities for Air Transportation; and
     Research and development establishments primarily engaged in aircraft R&D (except prototype
          production) are classified in U.S. Industry 541712, Research and Development in the Physical,
          Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology).

336412 Aircraft Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
aircraft engines and engine parts; (2) developing and making prototypes of aircraft engines and engine parts; (3)
aircraft propulsion system conversion (i.e., major modifications to systems); and (4) aircraft propulsion systems
overhaul and rebuilding (i.e., periodic restoration of aircraft propulsion system to original design specifications).

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing guided missile and space vehicle propulsion units and
         parts are classified in U.S. Industry 336415, Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Propulsion Unit and
         Propulsion Unit Parts Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing aircraft intake and exhaust valves and pistons and
         aircraft internal combustion engine filters are classified in Industry 336310, Motor Vehicle Gasoline
         Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in the repair of aircraft engines (except overhauling, conversion, and
         rebuilding) are classified in Industry 488190, Other Support Activities for Air Transportation;
     Research and development establishments primarily engaged in aircraft engine and engine parts R&D
         (except prototype production) are classified in U.S. Industry 541712, Research and Development in the
         Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology); and
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing aeronautical instruments are classified in U.S. Industry
         334511, Search, Detection, Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and Nautical System and Instrument
         Manufacturing.

336413 Other Aircraft Parts and Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishment primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing aircraft parts or auxiliary
equipment (except engines and aircraft fluid power subassemblies) and/or (2) developing and making prototypes of
aircraft parts and auxiliary equipment. Auxiliary equipment includes such items as crop dusting apparatus,
armament racks, inflight refueling equipment, and external fuel tanks.

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing aircraft engines and engine parts are classified in U.S.
         Industry 336412, Aircraft Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing aeronautical instruments are classified in U.S. Industry
         334511, Search, Detection, Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and Nautical System and Instrument
         Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing aircraft lighting fixtures and aircraft engine electrical
         (aeronautical electrical) equipment are classified in Industry 336320, Motor Vehicle Electrical and
         Electronic Equipment Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing guided missile and space vehicle parts and auxiliary
         equipment are classified in U.S. Industry 336419, Other Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Parts and
         Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing of aircraft fluid power subassemblies are classified in
         U.S. Industry 332912, Fluid Power Valve and Hose Fitting Manufacturing;
     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing of aircraft seating are classified in Industry 336360,
         Motor Vehicle Seating and Interior Trim Manufacturing; and
     Research and development establishments primarily engaged in aircraft parts and auxiliary equipment
         R&D (except prototype production) are classified in U.S. Industry 541712, Research and Development in
         the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology).

336414 Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing complete guided missiles and
space vehicles and/or (2) developing and making prototypes of guided missiles or space vehicles.

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing space satellites are classified in Industry 334220, Radio
         and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing; and
     Research and development establishments primarily engaged in guided missile and space vehicle R&D
         (except prototype production) are classified in U.S. Industry 541712, Research and Development in the
         Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology).

336415 Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Propulsion Unit and Propulsion Unit Parts Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing guided missile and/or space
vehicle propulsion units and propulsion unit parts and/or (2) developing and making prototypes of guided missile
and space vehicle propulsion units and propulsion unit parts.

Cross-References.

 Research and development establishments primarily engaged in guided missile and space propulsion unit and
propulsion unit parts R&D (except prototype production) are classified in U.S. Industry 541712, Research and
Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology).

336419 Other Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Parts and Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) manufacturing guided missile and space
vehicle parts and auxiliary equipment (except guided missile and space vehicle propulsion units and propulsion unit
parts) and/or (2) developing and making prototypes of guided missile and space vehicle parts and auxiliary
equipment.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing navigational and guidance systems are classified in
         U.S. Industry 334511, Search, Detection, Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and Nautical System and
         Instrument Manufacturing;
      Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing guided missile and space vehicle propulsion units and
         propulsion unit parts are classified in U.S. Industry 336415, Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Propulsion
         Unit and Propulsion Unit Parts Manufacturing; and
      Research and development establishments primarily engaged in guided missile and space vehicle parts and
         auxiliary equipment R&D (except prototype production) are classified in U.S. Industry 541712, Research
         and Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology).

3365     Railroad Rolling Stock Manufacturing       T



33651    Railroad Rolling Stock Manufacturing       T

         See industry description for 336510 below.

336510 Railroad Rolling Stock Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing
and/or rebuilding locomotives, locomotive frames and parts; (2) manufacturing railroad, street, and rapid transit cars
and car equipment for operation on rails for freight and passenger service; and (3) manufacturing rail layers, ballast
distributors, rail tamping equipment and other railway track maintenance equipment.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing mining rail cars are classified in U.S. Industry 333131,
         Mining Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing;
      Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing locomotive fuel lubricating or cooling medium pumps
         are classified in U.S. Industry 333911, Pump and Pumping Equipment Manufacturing;
      Repair establishments of railroad and local transit companies primarily engaged in repairing railroad and
         transit cars are classified in Industry 488210, Support Activities for Rail Transportation; and
      Establishments not owned by railroad or local transit companies engaged in repairing railroad cars and
         locomotive engines are classified in Industry 811310, Commercial and Industrial Machinery and
         Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair and Maintenance.

3366      Ship and Boat Building   T



33661     Ship and Boat Building   T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating shipyards or boat yards (i.e., ship or boat
manufacturing facilities). Shipyards are fixed facilities with drydocks and fabrication equipment capable of building
a ship, defined as watercraft typically suitable or intended for other than personal or recreational use. Boats are
defined as watercraft typically suitable or intended for personal use. Activities of shipyards include the construction
of ships, their repair, conversion and alteration, production of prefabricated ship and barge sections, and specialized
services, such as ship scaling.

Illustrative Examples:

Barge building
Boat yards (i.e., boat manufacturing facilities)
Cargo ship building
Drilling and production platforms, floating, oil and gas, building
Inflatable plastic boats, heavy-duty, manufacturing
Inflatable rubber boats, heavy-duty, manufacturing
Passenger ship building
Rigid inflatable boats (RIBs) manufacturing
Rowboats manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing inflatable rubber swimming pool rafts and similar flotation devices--are classified in
          Industry 32629, Other Rubber Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing inflatable plastic swimming pool rafts and similar flotation devices--are classified in
          Industry 32619, Other Plastics Product Manufacturing;
      Fabricating structural assemblies or components for ships, or subcontractors engaged in ship painting,
          joinery, carpentry work, and electrical wiring installation--are classified based on the production process
          used; and
      Ship repairs performed in floating drydocks--are classified in Industry 48839, Other Support Activities for
          Water Transportation.

336611 Ship Building and Repairing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating a shipyard. Shipyards are fixed
facilities with drydocks and fabrication equipment capable of building a ship, defined as watercraft typically suitable
or intended for other than personal or recreational use. Activities of shipyards include the construction of ships,
their repair, conversion and alteration, the production of prefabricated ship and barge sections, and specialized
services, such as ship scaling.

Illustrative Examples:

Barge building
Cargo ship building
Drilling and production platforms, floating, oil and gas, building
Passenger ship building
Submarine building

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Fabricating structural assemblies or components for ships, or subcontractors engaged in ship painting,
          joinery, carpentry work, and electrical wiring installation--are classified based on the production process
          used; and
      Ship repairs performed in floating drydocks--are classified in Industry 488390, Other Support Activities for
          Water Transportation.

336612 Boat Building

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in building boats. Boats are defined as watercraft
not built in shipyards and typically of the type suitable or intended for personal use. Included in this industry are
establishments that manufacture heavy-duty inflatable rubber or inflatable plastic boats (RIBs).

Illustrative Examples:

Dinghy (except inflatable rubber) manufacturing
Inflatable plastic boats, heavy-duty, manufacturing
Inflatable rubber boats, heavy-duty, manufacturing
Motorboats, inboard or outboard, building
Rigid inflatable boats (RIBs) manufacturing
Rowboats manufacturing
Sailboat building, not done in shipyards
Yacht building, not done in shipyards

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Ship building or ship repairs performed in a shipyard--are classified in U.S. Industry 336611, Ship Building
          and Repairing;
      Manufacturing inflatable rubber swimming pool rafts and similar flotation devices--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 326299, All Other Rubber Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing inflatable plastic swimming pool rafts and similar flotation devices--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 326199, All Other Plastics Product Manufacturing.

3369      Other Transportation Equipment Manufacturing           T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing transportation equipment
(except motor vehicles and parts, aerospace products and parts, railroad rolling stock, ship building, and boat
manufacturing).

33699     Other Transportation Equipment Manufacturing           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing motorcycles, bicycles, metal tricycles,
complete military armored vehicles, tanks, self-propelled weapons, vehicles pulled by draft animals, and other
transportation equipment (except motor vehicles, boats, ships, railroad rolling stock, and aerospace products),
including parts thereof.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing ships and boats--are classified in Industry 33661, Ship and Boat Building;
      Manufacturing aerospace products and parts--are classified in Industry 33641, Aerospace Product and Parts
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle parts--are classified in Industry Group 3363, Motor Vehicle Parts
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing children's vehicles (except bicycles and metal tricycles)--are classified in Industry 33993,
          Doll, Toy, and Game Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing railroad rolling stock--are classified in Industry 33651, Railroad Rolling Stock
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing motor vehicles--are classified in Industry Group 3361, Motor Vehicle Manufacturing.

336991 Motorcycle, Bicycle, and Parts Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing motorcycles, bicycles, tricycles
and similar equipment, and parts.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing children's vehicles (except bicycles and metal tricycles)--are classified in Industry 339930,
          Doll, Toy, and Game Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing golf carts and other similar personnel carriers--are classified in U.S. Industry 336999, All
          Other Transportation Equipment Manufacturing.

336992 Military Armored Vehicle, Tank, and Tank Component Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing complete military armored
vehicles, combat tanks, specialized components for combat tanks, and self-propelled weapons.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonarmored military universal carriers are classified in U.S.
Industry 336112, Light Truck and Utility Vehicle Manufacturing.

336999 All Other Transportation Equipment Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing transportation equipment (except
motor vehicles, motor vehicle parts, boats, ships, railroad rolling stock, aerospace products, motorcycles, bicycles,
armored vehicles and tanks).

Illustrative Examples:

All-terrain vehicles (ATVs), wheeled or tracked, manufacturing
Animal-drawn vehicles and parts manufacturing
Gocarts (except children's) manufacturing
Golf carts and similar motorized passenger carriers manufacturing
Race cars manufacturing
Snowmobiles and parts manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing motorcycles, bicycles and parts--are classified in U.S. Industry 336991, Motorcycle,
          Bicycle, and Parts Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing military armored vehicles, tanks, and tank components--are classified in U.S. Industry
          336992, Military Armored Vehicle, Tank, and Tank Component Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing ships and boats--are classified in Industry 33661, Ship and Boat Building;
      Manufacturing aerospace products and parts--are classified in Industry 33641, Aerospace Product and Parts
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing motor vehicle parts--are classified in Industry Group 3363, Motor Vehicle Parts
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing railroad rolling stock--are classified in Industry 336510, Railroad Rolling Stock
          Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing motor vehicles--are classified in Industry Group 3361, Motor Vehicle Manufacturing.

337       Furniture and Related Product Manufacturing        T



  Industries in the Furniture and Related Product Manufacturing subsector make furniture and related articles, such
as mattresses, window blinds, cabinets, and fixtures. The processes used in the manufacture of furniture include the
cutting, bending, molding, laminating, and assembly of such materials as wood, metal, glass, plastics, and rattan.
However, the production process for furniture is not solely bending metal, cutting and shaping wood, or extruding
and molding plastics. Design and fashion trends play an important part in the production of furniture. The
integrated design of the article for both esthetic and functional qualities is also a major part of the process of
manufacturing furniture. Design services may be performed by the furniture establishment's work force or may be
purchased from industrial designers.
  Furniture may be made of any material, but the most common ones used in North America are metal and wood.
Furniture manufacturing establishments may specialize in making articles primarily from one material. Some of the
equipment required to make a wooden table, for example, is different from that used to make a metal one. However,
furniture is usually made from several materials. A wooden table might have metal brackets, and a wooden chair a
fabric or plastics seat. Therefore, in NAICS, furniture initially is classified based on the type of furniture
(application for which it is designed) rather than the material used. For example, an upholstered sofa is treated as
household furniture, although it may also be used in hotels or offices.
  When classifying furniture according to the component material from which it is made, furniture made from more
than one material is classified based on the material used in the frame, or if there is no frame, the predominant
component material. Upholstered household furniture (excluding kitchen and dining room chairs with upholstered
seats) is classified without regard to the frame material. Kitchen or dining room chairs with upholstered seats are
classified according to the frame material.
  Furniture may be made on a stock or custom basis and may be shipped assembled or unassembled (i.e.,
knockdown). The manufacture of furniture parts and frames is included in this subsector.
  Some of the processes used in furniture manufacturing are similar to processes that are used in other segments of
manufacturing. For example, cutting and assembly occurs in the production of wood trusses that are classified in
Subsector 321, Wood Product Manufacturing. However, the multiple processes that distinguish wood furniture
manufacturing from wood product manufacturing warrant inclusion of wooden furniture manufacturing in the
Furniture and Related Product Manufacturing subsector. Metal furniture manufacturing uses techniques that are also
employed in the manufacturing of roll-formed products classified in Subsector 332, Fabricated Metal Product
Manufacturing. The molding process for plastics furniture is similar to the molding of other plastics products.
However, plastics furniture producing establishments tend to specialize in furniture.
  NAICS attempts to keep furniture manufacturing together, but there are two notable exceptions: seating for
transportation equipment and specialized hospital furniture (e.g., hospital beds and operating tables). These
exceptions are related to the fact that some of the aspects of the production process for these products, primarily the
design, are highly integrated with the other manufactured goods, namely motor vehicles and health equipment.

3371      Household and Institutional Furniture and Kitchen Cabinet Manufacturing             T



  This industry group comprises establishments manufacturing household-type furniture, such as living room,
kitchen and bedroom furniture and institutional (i.e., public building) furniture, such as furniture for schools,
theaters, and churches.

33711     Wood Kitchen Cabinet and Countertop Manufacturing            T

          See industry description for 337110 below.

337110 Wood Kitchen Cabinet and Countertop Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood or plastics laminated on wood
kitchen cabinets, bathroom vanities, and countertops (except freestanding). The cabinets and counters may be made
on a stock or custom basis.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing metal kitchen and bathroom cabinets (except freestanding)--are classified in U.S. Industry
         337124, Metal Household Furniture Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing plastics countertops--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics Product
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing stone countertops--are classified in U.S. Industry 327991, Cut Stone and Stone Product
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing wood or plastics laminated on wood countertops (except kitchen and bathroom)--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 337215, Showcase, Partition, Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing.

33712    Household and Institutional Furniture Manufacturing           T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing household-type and public building
furniture (i.e., library, school, theater, and church furniture). This industry includes establishments that manufacture
general purpose hospital, laboratory and/or dental furniture (e.g., stools, tables, benches). The furniture may be
made on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled or unassembled (i.e., knockdown).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing specialized hospital and/or dental furniture (e.g., hospital beds, operating tables, dental
         chairs)--are classified in Industry 33911, Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing wood or plastics laminated on wood kitchen cabinets, bathroom vanities, and countertops
         (except freestanding)--are classified in Industry 33711, Wood Kitchen Cabinet and Countertop
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing office-type furniture and/or office or store fixtures--are classified in Industry 33721, Office
         Furniture (including Fixtures) Manufacturing; and
     Repairing or refinishing furniture--are classified in Industry 81142, Reupholstery and Furniture Repair.

337121 Upholstered Household Furniture Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing upholstered household-type
furniture. The furniture may be made on a stock or custom basis.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Reupholstering furniture or upholstering frames to individual order--are classified in Industry 811420,
         Reupholstery and Furniture Repair;
     Manufacturing wood kitchen and dining room chairs with upholstered seats or backs--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 337122, Nonupholstered Wood Household Furniture Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing metal kitchen and dining room chairs with upholstered seats or backs--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 337124, Metal Household Furniture Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing kitchen and dining room chairs (except wood and metal) with upholstered seats or backs--
         are classified in U.S. Industry 337125, Household Furniture (except Wood and Metal) Manufacturing.

337122 Nonupholstered Wood Household Furniture Manufacturing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonupholstered wood household-
type furniture and freestanding cabinets (except television, radio, and sewing machine cabinets). The furniture may
be made on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled or unassembled (i.e., knockdown).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing reed, rattan, plastics and similar furniture--are classified in U.S. Industry 337125,
         Household Furniture (except Wood and Metal) Manufacturing;

     Manufacturing wood or plastics laminated on wood kitchen cabinets, bathroom vanities, and countertops
          (except freestanding)--are classified in Industry 337110, Wood Kitchen Cabinet and Countertop
          Manufacturing; and
     Repairing or refinishing furniture--are classified in Industry 811420, Reupholstery and Furniture Repair.

337124 Metal Household Furniture Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing metal household-type furniture
and freestanding cabinets. The furniture may be made on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled or
unassembled (i.e., knockdown).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing specialized metal hospital furniture including beds are
classified in Industry 33911, Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing.

337125 Household Furniture (except Wood and Metal) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing household-type furniture of
materials other than wood or metal, such as plastics, reed, rattan, wicker, and fiberglass. The furniture may be made
on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled or unassembled (i.e., knockdown).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing concrete, ceramic, or stone furniture--are classified in Subsector 327, Nonmetallic Mineral
          Product Manufacturing, according to the materials used;
     Manufacturing upholstered household-type furniture--are classified in U.S. Industry 337121, Upholstered
          Household Furniture Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing metal household-type furniture--are classified in U.S. Industry 337124, Metal Household
          Furniture Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing nonupholstered wood household-type furniture--are classified in U.S. Industry 337122,
          Nonupholstered Wood Household Furniture Manufacturing.

337127 Institutional Furniture Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing institutional-type furniture (e.g.,
library, school, theater, and church furniture). Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in
manufacturing general purpose hospital, laboratory, and dental furniture (e.g., tables, stools, and benches). The
furniture may be made on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled or unassembled (i.e., knockdown).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing specialized hospital furniture (e.g., hospital beds, operating tables)--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 339113, Surgical Appliance and Supplies Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing specialized dental furniture (e.g., dental chairs)--are classified in U.S. Industry 339114,
          Dental Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing wood kitchen cabinets, wood bathroom vanities, and countertops designed for permanent
          installation--are classified in Industry 337110, Wood Kitchen Cabinet and Countertop Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing office-type furniture and/or office or store fixtures--are classified in Industry 33721, Office
          Furniture (including Fixtures) Manufacturing; and
     Repairing or refinishing furniture--are classified in Industry 811420, Reupholstery and Furniture Repair.

3372      Office Furniture (including Fixtures) Manufacturing       T



33721     Office Furniture (including Fixtures) Manufacturing       T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing office furniture and/or office and store
fixtures. The furniture may be made on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled or unassembled (i.e.,
knockdown).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing millwork on a factory basis--are classified in Industry 32191, Millwork;
      Manufacturing household-type and institutional-type furniture--are classified in Industry 33712, Household
          and Institutional Furniture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing refrigerated cabinets, showcases, and display cases--are classified in Industry 33341,
          Ventilation, Heating, Air-Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing metal safes and vaults--are classified in Industry 33299, All Other Fabricated Metal Product
          Manufacturing.

337211 Wood Office Furniture Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood office-type furniture. The
furniture may be made on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled or unassembled (i.e., knockdown).

337212 Custom Architectural Woodwork and Millwork Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing custom designed interiors
consisting of architectural woodwork and fixtures utilizing wood, wood products, and plastics laminates. All of the
industry output is made to individual order on a job shop basis and requires skilled craftsmen as a labor input. A job
might include custom manufacturing of display fixtures, gondolas, wall shelving units, entrance and window
architectural detail, sales and reception counters, wall paneling, and matching furniture.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing millwork on a factory basis--are classified in U.S. Industry 321918, Other Millwork
          (including Flooring);
      Manufacturing wood office-type furniture on a stock or custom basis--are classified in U.S. Industry
          337211, Wood Office Furniture Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing wood office-type furniture and store fixtures on a stock basis--are classified in U.S. Industry
          337215, Showcase, Partition, Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing.

337214 Office Furniture (except Wood) Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing nonwood office-type furniture.
The furniture may be made on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled or unassembled (i.e., knockdown).

337215 Showcase, Partition, Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing wood and nonwood office and
store fixtures, shelving, lockers, frames, partitions, and related fabricated products of wood and nonwood materials,
including plastics laminated fixture tops. The products are made on a stock or custom basis and may be assembled
or unassembled (i.e., knockdown). Establishments exclusively making furniture parts (e.g., frames) are included in
this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing refrigerated cabinets, showcases, and display cases--are classified in U.S. Industry 333415,
          Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration
          Equipment Manufacturing;

     Manufacturing metal safes and vaults--are classified in U.S. Industry 332999, All Other Miscellaneous
         Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing wood or plastics laminated kitchen and bathroom countertops--are classified in Industry
         337110, Wood Kitchen Cabinet and Countertop Manufacturing.

3379     Other Furniture Related Product Manufacturing        T



  This industry group comprises establishments manufacturing furniture related products, such as mattresses, blinds,
and shades.

33791    Mattress Manufacturing     T

         See industry description for 337910 below.

337910 Mattress Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing innerspring, box spring, and
noninnerspring mattresses, including mattresses for waterbeds.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing individual wire springs--are classified in Industry 33261, Spring and Wire Product
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing inflatable mattresses--are classified in Subsector 326, Plastics and Rubber Products
         Manufacturing.

33792    Blind and Shade Manufacturing      T

         See industry description for 337920 below.

337920 Blind and Shade Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing one or more of the following:
venetian blinds, other window blinds, shades; curtain and drapery rods, poles; and/or curtain and drapery fixtures.
The blinds and shades may be made on a stock or custom basis and may be made of any material.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing canvas awnings--are classified in Industry 314910, Textile Bag and Canvas Mills; and
     Manufacturing curtains and draperies--are classified in Industry 314120, Curtain and Linen Mills.

339      Miscellaneous Manufacturing      T



  Industries in the Miscellaneous Manufacturing subsector make a wide range of products that cannot readily be
classified in specific NAICS subsectors in manufacturing. Processes used by these establishments vary
significantly, both among and within industries. For example, a variety of manufacturing processes are used in
manufacturing sporting and athletic goods that include products such as tennis racquets and golf balls. The
processes for these products differ from each other, and the processes differ significantly from the fabrication
processes used in making dolls or toys, the melting and shaping of precious metals to make jewelry, and the
bending, forming, and assembly used in making medical products.
  The industries in this subsector are defined by what is made rather than how it is made. Although individual
establishments might be appropriately classified elsewhere in the NAICS structure, for historical continuity, these
product-based industries were maintained. In most cases, no one process or material predominates for an industry.
  Establishments in this subsector manufacture products as diverse as medical equipment and supplies, jewelry,
sporting goods, toys, and office supplies.

3391     Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing         T

33911    Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing medical equipment and supplies.
Examples of products made by these establishments are surgical and medical instruments, surgical appliances and
supplies, dental equipment and supplies, orthodontic goods, ophthalmic goods, dentures, and orthodontic appliances.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing laboratory instruments, X-ray apparatus, electromedical apparatus (including electronic
         hearing aids), and thermometers (except medical)--are classified in Industry 33451, Navigational,
         Measuring, Electromedical, and Control Instruments Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing molded glass lens blanks--are classified in Industry 32721, Glass and Glass Product
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing molded plastics lens blanks--are classified in Industry 32619, Other Plastics Product
         Manufacturing;
     Retailing and grinding prescription eyeglasses--are classified in Industry 44613, Optical Goods Stores;
     Manufacturing sporting goods helmets and protective equipment--are classified in Industry 33992, Sporting
         and Athletic Goods Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing general purpose hospital, laboratory and/or dental furniture (e.g., stools, tables, benches)--
         are classified in Industry 33712, Household and Institutional Furniture Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing laboratory scales and balances, laboratory furnaces and ovens, and/or laboratory
         centrifuges--are classified in Industry 33399, All Other General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing laboratory distilling equipment--are classified in Industry 33324, Industrial Machinery
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing laboratory freezers--are classified in Industry 33341, Ventilation, Heating, Air-
         Conditioning, and Commercial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing.

339112 Surgical and Medical Instrument Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing medical, surgical, ophthalmic,
and veterinary instruments and apparatus (except electrotherapeutic, electromedical and irradiation apparatus).
Examples of products made by these establishments are syringes, hypodermic needles, anesthesia apparatus, blood
transfusion equipment, catheters, surgical clamps, and medical thermometers.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing electromedical and electrotherapeutic apparatus--are classified in U.S. Industry 334510,
         Electromedical and Electrotherapeutic Apparatus Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing irradiation apparatus--are classified in U.S. Industry 334517, Irradiation Apparatus
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing surgical and orthopedic appliances or specialized hospital furniture (except dental) (e.g.,
         hospital beds, operating tables)--are classified in U.S. Industry 339113, Surgical Appliance and Supplies
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing dental equipment, dental supplies, dental laboratory apparatus, and dental laboratory
         furniture--are classified in U.S. Industry 339114, Dental Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing general purpose hospital, laboratory and/or dental furniture (e.g., stools, tables, benches)--
         are classified in U.S. Industry 337127, Institutional Furniture Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing thermometers (except medical)--are classified in U.S. Industry 334519, Other Measuring
         and Controlling Device Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing ophthalmic goods--are classified in U.S. Industry 339115, Ophthalmic Goods
         Manufacturing.

339113 Surgical Appliance and Supplies Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing surgical appliances and supplies.
Examples of products made by these establishments are orthopedic devices, prosthetic appliances, surgical
dressings, crutches, surgical sutures, personal industrial safety devices (except protective eyewear), hospital beds,
and operating room tables.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing dental equipment, dental supplies, dental laboratory apparatus, and specialized dental
         laboratory furniture (e.g. dental chairs)--are classified in U.S. Industry 339114, Dental Equipment and
         Supplies Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing general purpose hospital, laboratory and/or dental furniture (e.g., stools, tables, benches)--
         are classified in U.S. Industry 337127, Institutional Furniture Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing electronic hearing aids--are classified in U.S. Industry 334510, Electromedical and
         Electrotherapeutic Apparatus Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing industrial protective eyewear--are classified in U.S. Industry 339115, Ophthalmic Goods
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing sporting goods helmets and protective equipment--are classified in Industry 339920,
         Sporting and Athletic Goods Manufacturing.

339114 Dental Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dental equipment and supplies
used by dental laboratories and offices of dentists, such as dental chairs, dental instrument delivery systems, dental
hand instruments, and dental impression material and dental cements.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dentures, crowns, bridges, and orthodontic appliances
customized for individual application are classified in U.S. Industry 339116, Dental Laboratories.

339115 Ophthalmic Goods Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing ophthalmic goods. Examples of
products made by these establishments are prescription eyeglasses (except manufactured in a retail setting), contact
lenses, sunglasses, eyeglass frames, and reading glasses made to standard powers, and protective eyewear.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing molded glass lens blanks--are classified in U.S. Industry 327212, Other Pressed and Blown
         Glass and Glassware Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing molded plastics lens blanks--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics
         Product Manufacturing; and
     Retailing and grinding prescription eyeglasses--are classified in Industry 446130, Optical Goods Stores.

339116 Dental Laboratories

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dentures, crowns, bridges, and
orthodontic appliances customized for individual application.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dental equipment and supplies are classified in U.S. Industry
339114, Dental Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing.

3399     Other Miscellaneous Manufacturing       T

33991    Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing       T

         See industry description for 339910 below.

339910 Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) manufacturing,
engraving, chasing, or etching jewelry; (2) manufacturing, engraving, chasing, or etching metal personal goods (i.e.,
small articles carried on or about the person, such as compacts or cigarette cases); (3) manufacturing, engraving,
chasing, or etching precious metal solid, precious metal clad, or pewter flatware and other hollowware; (4) stamping
coins; (5) manufacturing unassembled jewelry parts and stock shop products, such as sheet, wire, and tubing; (6)
cutting, slabbing, tumbling, carving, engraving, polishing, or faceting precious or semiprecious stones and gems; (7)
recutting, repolishing, and setting gem stones; and (8) drilling, sawing, and peeling cultured and costume pearls.
This industry includes establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing precious solid, precious clad, and
precious plated jewelry and personal goods.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing nonprecious and precious plated metal cutlery and flatware--are classified in U.S. Industry
         332215, Metal Kitchen Cookware, Utensil, Cutlery, and Flatware (except Precious) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing nonprecious metal plated ware (except cutlery and flatware)--are classified in U.S. Industry
         332999, All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing;
      Engraving, chasing, or etching nonprecious and precious plated metal cutlery, flatware and other plated
         ware--are classified in U.S. Industry 332812, Metal Coating, Engraving (except Jewelry and Silverware),
         and Allied Services to Manufacturers;
      Plating jewelry--are classified in U.S. Industry 332813, Electroplating, Plating, Polishing, Anodizing, and
         Coloring;
      Manufacturing synthetic stones--are classified in U.S. Industry 327999, All Other Miscellaneous
         Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing personal goods (except metal) carried on or about the person, such as compacts and
         cigarette cases--are classified in U.S. Industry 316998, All Other Leather Good and Allied Product
         Manufacturing.

33992    Sporting and Athletic Goods Manufacturing        T

         See industry description for 339920 below.

339920 Sporting and Athletic Goods Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing sporting and athletic goods (except
apparel and footwear).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing athletic apparel--are classified in Subsector 315, Apparel Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing athletic footwear--are classified in Industry 316210, Footwear Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing small arms and small arms ammunition--are classified in Industry 33299, All Other
         Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing.

33993    Doll, Toy, and Game Manufacturing        T

         See industry description for 339930 below.

339930 Doll, Toy, and Game Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing dolls, such as complete dolls, doll
parts, doll clothes, action figures, toys, games (including electronic), hobby kits, and children's vehicles (except
metal bicycles and tricycles).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing metal tricycles and bicycles--are classified in U.S. Industry 336991, Motorcycle, Bicycle,
         and Parts Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing sporting and athletic goods--are classified in Industry 339920, Sporting and Athletic Goods
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing coin-operated game machines--are classified in U.S. Industry 339999, All Other
         Miscellaneous Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing electronic video game cartridges and reproducing video game software--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 334614, Software and Other Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing; and
     Publishing or publishing and reproducing game software--are classified in Industry 511210, Software
         Publishers.

33994    Office Supplies (except Paper) Manufacturing       T

         See industry description for 339940 below.

339940 Office Supplies (except Paper) Manufacturing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing office supplies. Examples of
products made by these establishments are pens, pencils, felt tip markers, crayons, chalk, pencil sharpeners, staplers,
modeling clay, hand operated stamps, stamp pads, stencils, carbon paper, and inked ribbons.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing writing, drawing, and india inks--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other
         Miscellaneous Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing rubber erasers--are classified in U.S. Industry 326299, All Other Rubber Product
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing paper office supplies--are classified in Subsector 322, Paper Manufacturing;
     Printing manifold business forms and manufacturing blankbooks, looseleaf binders, and devices--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 323111, Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books);
     Manufacturing drafting tables and boards--are classified in U.S. Industry 337127, Institutional Furniture
         Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing inkjet cartridges--are classified in Industry 325910, Printing Ink Manufacturing.

33995    Sign Manufacturing      T

         See industry description for 339950 below.

339950 Sign Manufacturing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing signs and related displays of all
materials (except printing paper and paperboard signs, notices, displays).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Printing advertising specialties or printing paper and paperboard signs, notices, and displays--are classified
         in Industry 32311, Printing;
     Manufacturing and printing advertising specialties--are classified in the manufacturing sector according to
         products manufactured;
     Manufacturing die-cut paperboard displays--are classified in U.S. Industry 322299, All Other Converted
         Paper Product Manufacturing; and

      Sign lettering and painting--are classified in Industry 541890, Other Services Related to Advertising.

33999     All Other Miscellaneous Manufacturing     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in miscellaneous manufacturing (except medical
equipment and supplies, jewelry and flatware, sporting and athletic goods, dolls, toys, games, office supplies (except
paper), and signs).

Illustrative Examples:

Artificial Christmas trees manufacturing
Burial caskets and cases manufacturing
Candles manufacturing
Coin-operated amusement machines (except jukebox) manufacturing
Fasteners, buttons, needles, and pins (except precious metals or precious and semiprecious stones and gems)
manufacturing
Floor and dust mops manufacturing
Gasket, packing, and sealing devices manufacturing
Musical instruments (except toy) manufacturing
Portable fire extinguishers manufacturing
Umbrellas manufacturing

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing medical equipment and supplies--are classified in Industry Group 3391, Medical Equipment
          and Supplies Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing jewelry and flatware--are classified in Industry 33991, Jewelry and Silverware
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing sporting and athletic goods--are classified in Industry 33992, Sporting and Athletic Goods
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing dolls, toys, and games--are classified in Industry 33993, Doll, Toy, and Game
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing office supplies (except paper)--are classified in Industry 33994, Office Supplies (except
          Paper) Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing signs--are classified in Industry 33995, Sign Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing concrete burial vaults--are classified in Industry 32739, Other Concrete Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing Christmas tree glass ornaments and glass lamp shades--are classified in Industry 32721,
          Glass and Glass Product Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing Christmas tree lighting sets--are classified in Industry 33512, Lighting Fixture
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing beauty and barber chairs--are classified in Industry 33712, Household and Institutional
          Furniture Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing burnt wood articles--are classified in Industry 32199, All Other Wood Product
          Manufacturing;
      Dressing and bleaching furs--are classified in Industry 31611, Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing;
      Manufacturing paper, textile, and metal lamp shades--are classified in Industry 33512, Lighting Fixture
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing plastics lamp shades--are classified in Industry 32619, Other Plastics Product
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing matches--are classified in Industry 32599, All Other Chemical Product and Preparation
          Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing metal products, such as metal combs and hair curlers--are classified in Industry 33299, All
          Other Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing;

      Manufacturing plastics products, such as plastics combs and hair curlers--are classified in Industry 32619,
          Other Plastics Product Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing electric hair clippers for use on humans--are classified in Industry 33521, Small Electrical
          Appliance Manufacturing.

339991 Gasket, Packing, and Sealing Device Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing gaskets, packing, and sealing
devices of all materials.

339992 Musical Instrument Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing musical instruments (except
toys).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing toy musical instruments are classified in Industry 339930,
Doll, Toy, and Game Manufacturing.

339993 Fastener, Button, Needle, and Pin Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing fasteners, buttons, needles, pins,
and buckles (except precious metals or precious and semiprecious stones and gems).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Manufacturing buttons, pins, and buckles made of precious metals or precious and semiprecious stones and
          gems--are classified in Industry 339910, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing;
      Manufacturing hypodermic and suture needles--are classified in U.S. Industry 339112, Surgical and
          Medical Instrument Manufacturing; and
      Manufacturing phonograph and styli needles--are classified in U.S. Industry 334419, Other Electronic
          Component Manufacturing.

339994 Broom, Brush, and Mop Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing brooms, mops, and brushes.

339995 Burial Casket Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing burial caskets, cases, and vaults
(except concrete).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing concrete burial vaults are classified in Industry 327390, Other
Concrete Product Manufacturing.

339999 All Other Miscellaneous Manufacturing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in miscellaneous manufacturing (except medical
equipment and supplies, jewelry and flatware, sporting and athletic goods, dolls, toys, games, office supplies (except
paper), musical instruments, fasteners, buttons, needles, pins, brooms, brushes, mops, and burial caskets).

Illustrative Examples:

Artificial Christmas trees manufacturing
Candles manufacturing
Christmas tree ornaments (except glass and electric) manufacturing
Cigarette lighters (except precious metal) manufacturing
Coin-operated amusement machines (except jukebox) manufacturing
Hair pieces (e.g., wigs, toupees, wiglets) manufacturing
Portable fire extinguishers manufacturing
Potpourri manufacturing
Tobacco pipes manufacturing
Umbrellas manufacturing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Manufacturing medical equipment and supplies--are classified in Industry Group 3391, Medical Equipment
         and Supplies Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing jewelry and flatware--are classified in Industry 339910, Jewelry and Silverware
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing sporting and athletic goods--are classified in Industry 339920, Sporting and Athletic Goods
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing dolls, toys, and games--are classified in Industry 339930, Doll, Toy, and Game
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing office supplies (except paper)--are classified in Industry 339940, Office Supplies (except
         Paper) Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing signs--are classified in Industry 339950, Sign Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing gasket, packing, and sealing devices--are classified in U.S. Industry 339991, Gasket,
         Packing, and Sealing Device Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing musical instruments--are classified in U.S. Industry 339992, Musical Instrument
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing fasteners, buttons, needles, and pins--are classified in U.S. Industry 339993, Fastener,
         Button, Needle, and Pin Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing brooms, brushes, and mops--are classified in U.S. Industry 339994, Broom, Brush, and Mop
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing burial caskets--are classified in U.S. Industry 339995, Burial Casket Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing Christmas tree glass ornaments and glass lamp shades--are classified in U.S. Industry
         327215, Glass Product Manufacturing Made of Purchased Glass;
     Manufacturing Christmas tree lighting sets--are classified in U.S. Industry 335129, Other Lighting
         Equipment Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing beauty and barber chairs--are classified in U.S. Industry 337127, Institutional Furniture
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing burnt wood articles--are classified in U.S. Industry 321999, All Other Miscellaneous Wood
         Product Manufacturing;
     Dressing and bleaching furs--are classified in Industry 316110, Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing;
     Manufacturing paper, textile, and metal lamp shades--are classified in U.S. Industry 335121, Residential
         Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing plastics lamp shades--are classified in U.S. Industry 326199, All Other Plastics Product
         Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing matches--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other Miscellaneous Chemical Product
         and Preparation Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing metal products, such as metal combs and hair curlers--are classified in U.S. Industry
         332999, All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing;
     Manufacturing plastics products, such as plastics combs and hair curlers--are classified in U.S. Industry
         326199, All Other Plastics Product Manufacturing; and
     Manufacturing electric hair clippers for use on humans--are classified in Industry 335210, Small Electrical
         Appliance Manufacturing.

                                       Sector 42--Wholesale Trade                  T


                                               The Sector as a Whole

  The Wholesale Trade sector comprises establishments engaged in wholesaling merchandise, generally without
transformation, and rendering services incidental to the sale of merchandise. The merchandise described in this
sector includes the outputs of agriculture, mining, manufacturing, and certain information industries, such as
publishing.
  The wholesaling process is an intermediate step in the distribution of merchandise. Wholesalers are organized to
sell or arrange the purchase or sale of (a) goods for resale (i.e., goods sold to other wholesalers or retailers), (b)
capital or durable nonconsumer goods, and (c) raw and intermediate materials and supplies used in production.
  Wholesalers sell merchandise to other businesses and normally operate from a warehouse or office. These
warehouses and offices are characterized by having little or no display of merchandise. In addition, neither the
design nor the location of the premises is intended to solicit walk-in traffic. Wholesalers do not normally use
advertising directed to the general public. Customers are generally reached initially via telephone, in-person
marketing, or by specialized advertising that may include Internet and other electronic means. Follow-up orders are
either vendor-initiated or client-initiated, generally based on previous sales, and typically exhibit strong ties between
sellers and buyers. In fact, transactions are often conducted between wholesalers and clients that have long-standing
business relationships.
  This sector comprises two main types of wholesalers: merchant wholesalers that sell goods on their own account
and business-to-business electronic markets, agents, and brokers that arrange sales and purchases for others
generally for a commission or fee.
  (1) Establishments that sell goods on their own account are known as wholesale merchants, distributors, jobbers,
drop shippers, and import/export merchants. Also included as wholesale merchants are sales offices and sales
branches (but not retail stores) maintained by manufacturing, refining, or mining enterprises apart from their plants
or mines for the purpose of marketing their products and group purchasing organizations (e.g., purchasing and
selling goods on their own account). Merchant wholesale establishments typically maintain their own warehouse,
where they receive and handle goods for their customers. Goods are generally sold without transformation, but may
include integral functions, such as sorting, packaging, labeling, and other marketing services.
  (2) Establishments arranging for the purchase or sale of goods owned by others or purchasing goods, generally on
a commission basis are known as business-to-business electronic markets, agents and brokers, commission
merchants, import/export agents and brokers, auction companies, group purchasing organization (e.g., purchasing or
arranging for the purchases of goods owned by others), and manufacturers' representatives. These establishments
operate from offices and generally do not own or handle the goods they sell.
  Some wholesale establishments may be connected with a single manufacturer and promote and sell the particular
manufacturers' products to a wide range of other wholesalers or retailers. Other wholesalers may be connected to a
retail chain, or limited number of retail chains, and only provide a variety of products needed by that particular retail
operation(s). These wholesalers may obtain the products from a wide range of manufacturers. Still other
wholesalers may not take title to the goods, but act as agents and brokers for a commission.
  Although, in general, wholesaling normally denotes sales in large volumes, durable nonconsumer goods may be
sold in single units. Sales of capital or durable nonconsumer goods used in the production of goods and services,
such as farm machinery, medium- and heavy-duty trucks, and industrial machinery, are always included in
wholesale trade.

423       Merchant Wholesalers, Durable Goods

  Industries in the Merchant Wholesalers, Durable Goods subsector sell capital or durable goods to other businesses.
Merchant wholesalers generally take title to the goods that they sell; in other words, they buy and sell goods on their
own account. Durable goods are new or used items generally with a normal life expectancy of three years or more.
Durable goods merchant wholesale trade establishments are engaged in wholesaling products, such as motor
vehicles, furniture, construction materials, machinery and equipment (including household-type appliances), metals
and minerals (except petroleum), sporting goods, toys and hobby goods, recyclable materials, and parts.
  Business-to-business electronic markets, agents, and brokers primarily engaged in wholesaling durable goods,
generally on a commission or fee basis, are classified in Subsector 425, Wholesale Electronic Markets and Agents
and Brokers.

4231     Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Parts and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
automobiles and other motor vehicles, motor vehicle supplies, tires, and new and used parts.

42311    Automobile and Other Motor Vehicle Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423110 below.

423110 Automobile and Other Motor Vehicle Merchant Wholesalers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of new and used
passenger automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other motor vehicles, such as motorcycles, motor homes, and
snowmobiles.

42312    Motor Vehicle Supplies and New Parts Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423120 below.

423120 Motor Vehicle Supplies and New Parts Merchant Wholesalers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of motor vehicle
supplies, accessories, tools, and equipment; and new motor vehicle parts (except new tires and tubes).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of new and/or used tires and tubes--are classified in Industry 423130, Tire
         and Tube Merchant Wholesalers;
     Merchant wholesale distribution of automotive chemicals (except lubricating oils and greases)--are
         classified in Industry 424690, Other Chemical and Allied Products Merchant Wholesalers;
     Merchant wholesale distribution of lubricating oils and greases--are classified in Industry 424720,
         Petroleum and Petroleum Products Merchant Wholesalers (except Bulk Stations and Terminals); and
     Merchant wholesale distribution of used motor vehicle parts--are classified in Industry 423140, Motor
         Vehicle Parts (Used) Merchant Wholesalers.

42313    Tire and Tube Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423130 below.

423130 Tire and Tube Merchant Wholesalers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of new and/or
used tires and tubes for passenger and commercial vehicles.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of other new automobile parts and accessories--are classified in Industry
         423120, Motor Vehicle Supplies and New Parts Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Merchant wholesale distribution of other used automobile parts and accessories--are classified in Industry
         423140, Motor Vehicle Parts (Used) Merchant Wholesalers.

42314    Motor Vehicle Parts (Used) Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423140 below.

423140 Motor Vehicle Parts (Used) Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of used motor
vehicle parts (except used tires and tubes) and establishments primarily engaged in dismantling motor vehicles for
the purpose of selling the parts.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Dismantling motor vehicles for the purpose of selling scrap--are classified in Industry 423930, Recyclable
          Material Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of new and/or used tires and tubes--are classified in Industry 423130, Tire
          and Tube Merchant Wholesalers.

4232      Furniture and Home Furnishing Merchant Wholesalers

42321     Furniture Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423210 below.

423210 Furniture Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of furniture
(except hospital beds, medical furniture, and drafting tables).

Illustrative Examples:

Household-type furniture merchant wholesalers
Outdoor furniture merchant wholesalers
Mattresses merchant wholesalers
Public building furniture merchant wholesalers
Office furniture merchant wholesalers
Religious furniture merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of partitions, shelving, lockers, and store fixtures--are classified in
          Industry 423440, Other Commercial Equipment Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of hospital beds and medical furniture--are classified in Industry 423450,
          Medical, Dental, and Hospital Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of drafting tables--are classified in Industry 423490, Other Professional
          Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

42322     Home Furnishing Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423220 below.

423220 Home Furnishing Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of home
furnishings and/or housewares.

Illustrative Examples:

Carpet merchant wholesalers
Glassware merchant wholesalers
Chinaware merchant wholesalers
Household-type cooking utensil merchant wholesalers
Curtain merchant wholesalers
Lamp merchant wholesalers
Drapery merchant wholesalers

Linen (e.g., bath, bed, table) merchant wholesalers
Floor covering merchant wholesalers
Window blind and shade merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of household-type gas and electric appliances (except water heaters and
         heating stoves (i.e., noncooking))--are classified in Industry 423620, Household Appliances, Electric
         Housewares, and Consumer Electronics Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Merchant wholesale distribution of precious metal flatware--are classified in Industry 423940, Jewelry,
         Watch, Precious Stone, and Precious Metal Merchant Wholesalers.

4233     Lumber and Other Construction Materials Merchant Wholesalers

42331    Lumber, Plywood, Millwork, and Wood Panel Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423310 below.

423310 Lumber, Plywood, Millwork, and Wood Panel Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of lumber;
plywood; reconstituted wood fiber products; wood fencing; doors and windows and their frames (all materials);
wood roofing and siding; and/or other wood or metal millwork.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of nonwood roofing and siding materials--are classified in Industry
         423330, Roofing, Siding, and Insulation Material Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Merchant wholesale distribution of timber and timber products, such as railroad ties, logs, firewood, and
         pulpwood--are classified in Industry 423990, Other Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers.

42332    Brick, Stone, and Related Construction Material Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423320 below.

423320 Brick, Stone, and Related Construction Material Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of stone, cement,
lime, construction sand, and gravel; brick; asphalt and concrete mixtures; and/or concrete, stone, and structural clay
products.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of refractory brick and other refractory products--are classified in Industry
         423840, Industrial Supplies Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Selling ready-mix concrete--are classified in Industry 327320, Ready-Mix Concrete Manufacturing.

42333    Roofing, Siding, and Insulation Material Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423330 below.

423330 Roofing, Siding, and Insulation Material Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of nonwood
roofing and nonwood siding and insulation materials.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of wood roofing and wood siding are
classified in Industry 423310, Lumber, Plywood, Millwork, and Wood Panel Merchant Wholesalers.

42339     Other Construction Material Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423390 below.

423390 Other Construction Material Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes) and/or prefabricated buildings and (2) establishments primarily engaged in
the merchant wholesale distribution of construction materials (except lumber, plywood, millwork, wood panels,
brick, stone, roofing, siding, electrical and wiring supplies, and insulation materials).

Illustrative Examples:

Flat glass merchant wholesalers
Prefabricated buildings (except wood) merchant wholesalers
Ornamental ironwork merchant wholesalers
Wire fencing and fencing accessories merchant wholesalers
Plate glass merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of products of the primary metals industries--are classified in Industry
          423510, Metal Service Centers and Other Metal Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of lumber; plywood; reconstituted wood fiber products; wood fencing;
          doors, windows, and their frames; wood roofing and wood siding; and other wood or metal millwork--are
          classified in Industry 423310, Lumber, Plywood, Millwork, and Wood Panel Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of stone, cement, lime, construction sand and gravel; brick; asphalt and
          concrete mixtures (except ready-mix concrete); and/or concrete, stone, and structural clay products--are
          classified in Industry 423320, Brick, Stone, and Related Construction Material Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of nonwood roofing, nonwood siding and insulation materials--are
          classified in Industry 423330, Roofing, Siding, and Insulation Material Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of electrical supplies and wiring supplies--are classified in Industry
          423610, Electrical Apparatus and Equipment, Wiring Supplies, and Related Equipment Merchant
          Wholesalers; and
      Selling ready-mix concrete--are classified in Industry 327320, Ready-Mix Concrete Manufacturing.

4234      Professional and Commercial Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
photographic equipment and supplies; office, computer, and computer peripheral equipment; and medical, dental,
hospital, ophthalmic, and other commercial and professional equipment and supplies.

42341     Photographic Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423410 below.

423410 Photographic Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of photographic
equipment and supplies (except office equipment).

Illustrative Examples:

Photofinishing equipment merchant wholesalers

Television cameras merchant wholesalers
Photographic camera equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Video cameras (except household-type) merchant wholesalers
Photographic film merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of household-type video cameras--are classified in Industry 423620,
          Household Appliances, Electric Housewares, and Consumer Electronics Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of office equipment, such as photocopy and microfilm equipment--are
          classified in Industry 423420, Office Equipment Merchant Wholesalers.

42342     Office Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423420 below.

423420 Office Equipment Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of office
machines and related equipment (except computers and computer peripheral equipment).

Illustrative Examples:

Accounting machines merchant wholesalers
Mailing machine merchant wholesalers
Calculator and calculating machines merchant wholesalers
Microfilm equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Cash register merchant wholesalers
Security safe merchant wholesalers
Copying machine merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of office furniture--are classified in Industry 423210, Furniture Merchant
          Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of computers and computer peripheral equipment--are classified in
          Industry 423430, Computer and Computer Peripheral Equipment and Software Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of office supplies--are classified in Industry 424120, Stationery and Office
          Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

42343     Computer and Computer Peripheral Equipment and Software Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423430 below.

423430 Computer and Computer Peripheral Equipment and Software Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of computers,
computer peripheral equipment, loaded computer boards, and/or computer software.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of modems and other electronic communications equipment--are classified
          in Industry 423690, Other Electronic Parts and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Selling, planning, and designing computer systems that integrate computer hardware, software, and
          communication technologies--are classified in U.S. Industry 541512, Computer Systems Design Services.

42344     Other Commercial Equipment Merchant Wholesalers

          See industry description for 423440 below.

423440 Other Commercial Equipment Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of commercial
and related machines and equipment (except photographic equipment and supplies; office equipment; and computers
and computer peripheral equipment and software) generally used in restaurants and stores.

Illustrative Examples:

Balances and scales (except laboratory) merchant wholesalers
Commercial shelving merchant wholesalers
Coin-operated merchandising machine merchant wholesalers
Electrical sign merchant wholesalers
Commercial chinaware merchant wholesalers
Partitions merchant wholesalers
Commercial cooking equipment merchant wholesalers
Store fixture (except refrigerated) merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of photographic equipment and supplies--are classified in Industry
          423410, Photographic Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of office machines and related equipment--are classified in Industry
          423420, Office Equipment Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of computers, computer peripheral equipment, and computer software--are
          classified in Industry 423430, Computer and Computer Peripheral Equipment and Software Merchant
          Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of laboratory scales and balances (except medical and dental)--are
          classified in Industry 423490, Other Professional Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of refrigerated store fixtures--are classified in Industry 423740,
          Refrigeration Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

42345     Medical, Dental, and Hospital Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423450 below.

423450 Medical, Dental, and Hospital Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of professional
medical equipment, instruments, and supplies (except ophthalmic equipment and instruments and goods used by
ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians).

Illustrative Examples:

Dental equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Medical dressings merchant wholesalers
Electromedical equipment merchant wholesalers
Patient monitoring equipment merchant wholesalers
Hospital beds merchant wholesalers
Prosthetic appliance and supplies merchant wholesalers
Hospital furniture merchant wholesalers
Surgical instrument and apparatus merchant wholesalers
Medical and dental X-ray machine merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of professional equipment, instruments
and/or goods sold, prescribed, or used by ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians are classified in Industry
423460, Ophthalmic Goods Merchant Wholesalers.

42346     Ophthalmic Goods Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423460 below.

423460 Ophthalmic Goods Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of professional
equipment, instruments, and/or goods sold, prescribed, or used by ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians.

Illustrative Examples:

Binocular merchant wholesalers
Optometric equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Ophthalmic frame merchant wholesalers
Sunglasses merchant wholesalers
Ophthalmic lenses merchant wholesalers

42349     Other Professional Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423490 below.

423490 Other Professional Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of professional
equipment and supplies (except ophthalmic goods and medical, dental, and hospital equipment and supplies).

Illustrative Examples:

Church supplies (except silverware, plated ware) merchant wholesalers
School equipment and supplies (except books, furniture) merchant wholesalers
Drafting tables and instruments merchant wholesalers
Scientific instruments merchant wholesalers
Laboratory equipment (except medical, dental) merchant wholesalers
Surveying equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of professional equipment, instruments, and/or goods sold, prescribed, or
          used by ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians, such as ophthalmic frames and lenses, and
          sunglasses--are classified in Industry 423460, Ophthalmic Goods Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of medical professional equipment, instruments, and supplies used by
          medical and dental practitioners (except ophthalmic equipment, instruments, and goods used by
          ophthalmologists, optometrists, and opticians) and medical facilities--are classified in Industry 423450,
          Medical, Dental, and Hospital Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of silverware and plated flatware--are classified in Industry 423940,
          Jewelry, Watch, Precious Stone, and Precious Metal Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of books--are classified in Industry 424920, Book, Periodical, and
          Newspaper Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of school furniture--are classified in Industry 423210, Furniture Merchant
          Wholesalers.

4235      Metal and Mineral (except Petroleum) Merchant Wholesalers

42351     Metal Service Centers and Other Metal Merchant Wholesalers

          See industry description for 423510 below.

423510 Metal Service Centers and Other Metal Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of products of
the primary metals industries. Service centers maintain inventory and may perform functions, such as sawing,
shearing, bending, leveling, cleaning, or edging, on a custom basis as part of sales transactions.

Illustrative Examples:

Cast iron pipe merchant wholesalers
Metal rod merchant wholesalers
Metal bars (except precious) merchant wholesalers
Metal sheet merchant wholesalers
Metal ingots (except precious) merchant wholesalers
Metal spike merchant wholesalers
Metal pipe merchant wholesalers
Nail merchant wholesalers
Metal plate merchant wholesalers
Noninsulated wire merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of gold, silver, and platinum--are classified in Industry 423940, Jewelry,
          Watch, Precious Stone, and Precious Metal Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of automotive, industrial, and other recyclable metal scrap--are classified
          in Industry 423930, Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of insulated wire--are classified in Industry 423610, Electrical Apparatus
          and Equipment, Wiring Supplies, and Related Equipment Merchant Wholesalers.

42352     Coal and Other Mineral and Ore Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423520 below.

423520 Coal and Other Mineral and Ore Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of coal, coke,
metal ores, and/or nonmetallic minerals (except precious and semiprecious stones and minerals used in construction,
such as sand and gravel).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of nonmetallic minerals used in construction, such as sand and gravel--are
          classified in Industry 423320, Brick, Stone, and Related Construction Material Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of crude petroleum--are classified in Industry Group 4247, Petroleum and
          Petroleum Products Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of precious and semiprecious stones and metals--are classified in Industry
          423940, Jewelry, Watch, Precious Stone, and Precious Metal Merchant Wholesalers.

4236      Household Appliances and Electrical and Electronic Goods Merchant Wholesalers

42361     Electrical Apparatus and Equipment, Wiring Supplies, and Related Equipment Merchant
          Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423610 below.

423610 Electrical Apparatus and Equipment, Wiring Supplies, and Related Equipment Merchant
          Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of electrical
construction materials; wiring supplies; electric light fixtures; light bulbs; and/or electrical power equipment for the
generation, transmission, distribution, or control of electric energy.

42362     Household Appliances, Electric Housewares, and Consumer Electronics Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423620 below.

423620 Household Appliances, Electric Housewares, and Consumer Electronics Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of household-
type gas and electric appliances (except water heaters and heating stoves (i.e., noncooking)), room air-conditioners,
and/or household-type audio or video equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Household-type sewing machine merchant wholesalers
Household-type radio (including automotive) merchant wholesalers
Household-type video camera merchant wholesalers
Household-type refrigerator merchant wholesalers
Television set merchant wholesalers
Toothbrushes, electric, merchant wholesalers
Curling irons, electric, merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of gas and electric water heaters and heating stoves (i.e., noncooking)--are
          classified in Industry 423720, Plumbing and Heating Equipment and Supplies (Hydronics) Merchant
          Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of nonhousehold-type video cameras--are classified in Industry 423410,
          Photographic Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

42369     Other Electronic Parts and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423690 below.

423690 Other Electronic Parts and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of electronic
parts and equipment (except electrical apparatus and equipment, wiring supplies, and construction materials;
electrical and electronic appliances; and television and radio sets).

Illustrative Examples:

Blank audio or video tape merchant wholesalers
Communications equipment merchant wholesalers
Blank compact disc (CD) merchant wholesalers
Radar equipment merchant wholesalers
Blank digital video disc (DVD) merchant wholesalers
Telegraph equipment merchant wholesalers
Blank diskette merchant wholesalers
Telephone equipment merchant wholesalers
Broadcasting equipment merchant wholesalers
Unloaded computer board merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of household-type gas and electric appliances (except water heaters and
          heating stoves (i.e., noncooking)), room air-conditioners, clothes dryers, and/or household-type audio or
          video equipment--are classified in Industry 423620, Household Appliances, Electric Housewares, and
          Consumer Electronics Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of computers, computer peripheral equipment, and loaded computer
          boards--are classified in Industry 423430, Computer and Computer Peripheral Equipment and Software
          Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of electrical construction materials, wiring supplies, electric light fixtures,
          light bulbs, and/or electrical power equipment for generation, transmission, distribution, or control of
          electric energy--are classified in Industry 423610, Electrical Apparatus and Equipment, Wiring Supplies,
          and Related Equipment Merchant Wholesalers.

4237      Hardware, and Plumbing and Heating Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

42371     Hardware Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423710 below.

423710 Hardware Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of hardware,
knives, or handtools.

Illustrative Examples:

Brads merchant wholesalers
Knives (except disposable plastics) merchant wholesalers
Cutlery merchant wholesalers
Power handtools (e.g., drills, saws, sanders) merchant wholesalers
Fasteners (e.g., bolts, nuts, rivets, screws) merchant wholesalers
Staples merchant wholesalers
Handtools (except motor vehicle, machinists' precision) merchant wholesalers
Tacks merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of nails, noninsulated wire, and screening--are classified in Industry
          423510, Metal Service Centers and Other Metal Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of motor vehicle handtools and equipment--are classified in Industry
          423120, Motor Vehicle Supplies and New Parts Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of machinists' precision handtools--are classified in Industry 423830,
          Industrial Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of disposable plastics knives and eating utensils--are classified in Industry
          424130, Industrial and Personal Service Paper Merchant Wholesalers.

42372     Plumbing and Heating Equipment and Supplies (Hydronics) Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423720 below.

423720 Plumbing and Heating Equipment and Supplies (Hydronics) Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of plumbing
equipment, hydronic heating equipment, household-type water heaters, and/or supplies.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Selling and installing plumbing, heating and air conditioning equipment--are classified in Industry 238220,
          Plumbing, Heating, and Air-Conditioning Contractors;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of warm air heating and air-conditioning equipment--are classified in
          Industry 423730, Warm Air Heating and Air-Conditioning Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
          and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of household-type gas and electric appliances (except water heaters and
          heating stoves (i.e., noncooking)), room air-conditioners, clothes dryers, and/or household-type audio or
          video equipment--are classified in Industry 423620, Household Appliances, Electric Housewares, and
          Consumer Electronics Merchant Wholesalers.

42373     Warm Air Heating and Air-Conditioning Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423730 below.

423730 Warm Air Heating and Air-Conditioning Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of warm air
heating and air-conditioning equipment and supplies.

Illustrative Examples:

Air pollution control equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Nonportable electric baseboard heaters merchant wholesalers
Air-conditioning equipment (except room units) merchant wholesalers
Warm air central heating equipment merchant wholesalers
Automotive air-conditioners merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of household-type gas and electric appliances (except water heaters and
          heating stoves (i.e., noncooking)) and room air-conditioners--are classified in Industry 423620, Household
          Appliances, Electric Housewares, and Consumer Electronics Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of hydronic heating equipment--are classified in Industry 423720,
          Plumbing and Heating Equipment and Supplies (Hydronics) Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Selling and installing warm air heating and air-conditioning equipment--are classified in Industry 238220,
          Plumbing, Heating, and Air-Conditioning Contractors.

42374     Refrigeration Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423740 below.

423740 Refrigeration Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of refrigeration
equipment (except household-type refrigerators, freezers, and air-conditioners).

Illustrative Examples:

Cold storage machinery merchant wholesalers
Refrigerated display cases merchant wholesalers
Commercial refrigerators merchant wholesalers
Water coolers merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of household-type refrigerators, freezers, and room air-conditioners--are
          classified in Industry 423620, Household Appliances, Electric Housewares, and Consumer Electronics
          Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of air-conditioning equipment (except room units)--are classified in
          Industry 423730, Warm Air Heating and Air-Conditioning Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

4238      Machinery, Equipment, and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
construction, mining, farm, garden, industrial, service establishment, and transportation machinery, equipment and
supplies.

42381     Construction and Mining (except Oil Well) Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423810 below.

423810 Construction and Mining (except Oil Well) Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of specialized
machinery, equipment, and related parts generally used in construction, mining (except oil well), and logging
activities.

Illustrative Examples:

Excavating machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers
Road construction and maintenance machinery merchant wholesalers
Forestry machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers
Scaffolding merchant wholesalers
Mining cranes merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of oil well machinery and equipment are
classified in Industry 423830, Industrial Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers.

42382     Farm and Garden Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423820 below.

423820 Farm and Garden Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of specialized
machinery, equipment, and related parts generally used in agricultural, farm, and lawn and garden activities.

Illustrative Examples:

Animal feeders merchant wholesalers
Milking machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers
Harvesting machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers
Planting machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers
Lawnmowers merchant wholesalers

42383     Industrial Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423830 below.

423830 Industrial Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of specialized
machinery, equipment, and related parts generally used in manufacturing, oil well, and warehousing activities.

Illustrative Examples:

Fluid power transmission equipment merchant wholesalers
Metalworking machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers
Food-processing machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers
Oil well machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers
Materials handling machinery and equipment merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of specialized machinery, equipment, and related parts generally used in
          construction, mining (except oil well), and logging activities--are classified in Industry 423810,
          Construction and Mining (except Oil Well) Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of supplies used in machinery and equipment generally used in
          manufacturing, oil well, and warehousing activities--are classified in Industry 423840, Industrial Supplies
          Merchant Wholesalers.

42384     Industrial Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423840 below.

423840 Industrial Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of supplies for
machinery and equipment generally used in manufacturing, oil well, and warehousing activities.

Illustrative Examples:

Industrial containers merchant wholesalers
Refractory materials (e.g., brick, blocks, shapes) merchant wholesalers
Industrial diamonds merchant wholesalers
Welding supplies (except welding gases) merchant wholesalers
Printing inks merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of hydraulic and pneumatic (fluid power) pumps, motors, pistons, and
          valves--are classified in Industry 423830, Industrial Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of welding gases--are classified in Industry 424690, Other Chemical and
          Allied Products Merchant Wholesalers.

42385     Service Establishment Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423850 below.

423850 Service Establishment Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of specialized
equipment and supplies of the type used by service establishments (except specialized equipment and supplies used
in offices, stores, hotels, restaurants, schools, health and medical facilities, photographic facilities, and specialized
equipment used in transportation and construction activities).

Illustrative Examples:

Amusement park equipment merchant wholesalers

Janitorial equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Beauty parlor equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Undertakers' equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Car wash equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers
Upholsterers' equipment and supplies (except fabrics) merchant wholesalers
Drycleaning equipment and supplies merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of janitorial and automotive chemicals--are classified in Industry 424690,
          Other Chemical and Allied Products Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of piece goods, fabrics, knitting yarns (except industrial), thread and other
          notions--are classified in Industry 424310, Piece Goods, Notions, and Other Dry Goods Merchant
          Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of industrial yarns--are classified in Industry 424990, Other Miscellaneous
          Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers.

42386     Transportation Equipment and Supplies (except Motor Vehicle) Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423860 below.

423860 Transportation Equipment and Supplies (except Motor Vehicle) Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of transportation
equipment and supplies (except marine pleasure craft and motor vehicles).

Illustrative Examples:

Aircraft merchant wholesalers
Railroad cars merchant wholesalers
Motorized passenger golf carts merchant wholesalers
Ships merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of motor vehicles and motor vehicle parts--are classified in Industry Group
          4231, Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Parts and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of marine pleasure craft--are classified in Industry 423910, Sporting and
          Recreational Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

4239      Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
sporting, recreational, toy, hobby, and jewelry goods and supplies, and precious stones and metals.

42391     Sporting and Recreational Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 423910 below.

423910 Sporting and Recreational Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of sporting
goods and accessories; billiard and pool supplies; sporting firearms and ammunition; and/or marine pleasure craft,
equipment, and supplies.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of motor vehicles and trailers--are classified in Industry 423110,
         Automobile and Other Motor Vehicle Merchant Wholesalers;
     Merchant wholesale distribution of motorized passenger golf carts--are classified in Industry 423860,
         Transportation Equipment and Supplies (except Motor Vehicle) Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Merchant wholesale distribution of athletic apparel and athletic footwear--are classified in Industry Group
         4243, Apparel, Piece Goods, and Notions Merchant Wholesalers.

42392    Toy and Hobby Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423920 below.

423920 Toy and Hobby Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of games, toys,
fireworks, playing cards, hobby goods and supplies, and/or related goods.

42393    Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423930 below.

423930 Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of automotive
scrap, industrial scrap, and other recyclable materials. Included in this industry are auto wreckers primarily engaged
in dismantling motor vehicles for the purpose of wholesaling scrap.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Dismantling motor vehicles for the purpose of selling used parts--are classified in Industry 423140, Motor
         Vehicle Parts (Used) Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Operating facilities where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans,
         and metals are sorted into distinct categories--are classified in Industry 562920, Materials Recovery
         Facilities.

42394    Jewelry, Watch, Precious Stone, and Precious Metal Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423940 below.

423940 Jewelry, Watch, Precious Stone, and Precious Metal Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of jewelry,
precious and semiprecious stones, precious metals and metal flatware, costume jewelry, watches, clocks, silverware,
and/or jewelers' findings.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of precious metal ores or concentrates--are classified in Industry 423520,
         Coal and Other Mineral and Ore Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Merchant wholesale distribution of nonprecious flatware--are classified in Industry 423220, Home
         Furnishing Merchant Wholesalers.

42399    Other Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers
         See industry description for 423990 below.

423990 Other Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of durable goods
(except motor vehicle and motor vehicle parts and supplies; furniture and home furnishings; lumber and other

construction materials; professional and commercial equipment and supplies; metals and minerals (except
petroleum); electrical goods; hardware, and plumbing and heating equipment and supplies; machinery, equipment
and supplies; sporting and recreational goods and supplies; toy and hobby goods and supplies; recyclable materials;
and jewelry, watches, precious stones and precious metals).

Illustrative Examples:

Musical instruments merchant wholesalers
Prerecorded audio and video tapes and discs merchant wholesalers
Phonograph records merchant wholesalers
Prerecorded compact discs (CDs) and digital video discs (DVDs) merchant wholesalers
Prerecorded audio and video cassettes merchant wholesalers
Timber and timber products (except lumber) merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of automobiles and other motor vehicles, motor vehicle supplies, tires, and
          new and used parts--are classified in Industry Group 4231, Motor Vehicle and Motor Vehicle Parts and
          Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of furniture and home furnishings--are classified in Industry Group 4232,
          Furniture and Home Furnishing Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of lumber, plywood, millwork, wood panels, brick, stone, roofing, siding,
          and other nonelectrical construction materials--are classified in Industry Group 4233, Lumber and Other
          Construction Materials Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of photographic; office; computer and computer peripheral; medical,
          dental, hospital, ophthalmic; and other commercial and professional equipment and supplies--are classified
          in Industry Group 4234, Professional and Commercial Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of coal and other minerals and ores and semi-finished metal products--are
          classified in Industry Group 4235, Metal and Mineral (except Petroleum) Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of household appliances and electrical goods--are classified in Industry
          Group 4236, Household Appliances and Electrical and Electronic Goods Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of hardware; and plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration
          equipment and supplies--are classified in Industry Group 4237, Hardware, and Plumbing and Heating
          Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of construction, mining, farm, garden, industrial, service establishment,
          and transportation machinery, equipment and supplies--are classified in Industry Group 4238, Machinery,
          Equipment, and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of sporting goods and accessories; billiard and pool supplies; sporting
          firearms and ammunition; and/or marine pleasure craft, equipment, and supplies--are classified in Industry
          423910, Sporting and Recreational Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of toys, fireworks, playing cards, hobby goods and supplies and/or related
          goods--are classified in Industry 423920, Toy and Hobby Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of automotive, industrial, and other recyclable materials--are classified in
          Industry 423930, Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of jewelry, precious and semiprecious stones, precious metals and metal
          flatware, costume jewelry, watches, clocks, silverware, and/or jewelers' findings--are classified in Industry
          423940, Jewelry, Watch, Precious Stone, and Precious Metal Merchant Wholesalers.

424       Merchant Wholesalers, Nondurable Goods

  Industries in the Merchant Wholesalers, Nondurable Goods subsector sell nondurable goods to other businesses.
Nondurable goods are items generally with a normal life expectancy of less than three years. Nondurable goods
merchant wholesale trade establishments are engaged in wholesaling products, such as paper and paper products,
chemicals and chemical products, drugs, textiles and textile products, apparel, footwear, groceries, farm products,

petroleum and petroleum products, alcoholic beverages, books, magazines, newspapers, flowers and nursery stock,
and tobacco products.
  The detailed industries within the subsector are organized in the classification structure based on the products sold.
  Business to business electronic markets, agents, and brokers primarily engaged in wholesaling nondurable goods,
generally on a commission or fee basis, are classified in Subsector 425, Wholesale Electronic Markets and Agents
and Brokers.

4241      Paper and Paper Product Merchant Wholesalers

42411     Printing and Writing Paper Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424110 below.

424110 Printing and Writing Paper Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of bulk printing
and/or writing paper generally on rolls for further processing.

Illustrative Examples:

Bulk envelope paper merchant wholesalers
Bulk paper (e.g., fine, printing, writing) merchant wholesalers
Bulk groundwood paper merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of stationery are classified in Industry
424120, Stationery and Office Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

42412     Stationery and Office Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424120 below.

424120 Stationery and Office Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of stationery,
office supplies, and/or gift wrap.

Illustrative Examples:

Computer paper supplies merchant wholesalers
Photocopy supplies merchant wholesalers
Envelope merchant wholesalers
Social stationery merchant wholesalers
File cards and folders merchant wholesalers
Typewriter paper merchant wholesalers
Greeting cards merchant wholesalers
Writing pens merchant wholesalers
Pencils merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of bulk printing and/or writing paper are
classified in Industry 424110, Printing and Writing Paper Merchant Wholesalers.

42413     Industrial and Personal Service Paper Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424130 below.

424130 Industrial and Personal Service Paper Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of kraft
wrapping and other coarse paper, paperboard, converted paper (except stationery and office supplies), and/or related
disposable plastics products.

Illustrative Examples:

Disposable plastics eating utensils merchant wholesalers
Paper napkins merchant wholesalers
Paper and disposable plastics dishes merchant wholesalers
Paperboard and disposable plastics boxes merchant wholesalers
Paper and disposable plastics shipping supplies merchant wholesalers
Plastics bags merchant wholesalers
Paper bags merchant wholesalers
Sanitary paper products merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of stationery, office supplies, and/or gift
wrap are classified in Industry 424120, Stationery and Office Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

4242      Drugs and Druggists' Sundries Merchant Wholesalers

42421     Drugs and Druggists' Sundries Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424210 below.

424210 Drugs and Druggists' Sundries Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of biological and
medical products; botanical drugs and herbs; and pharmaceutical products intended for internal and external
consumption in such forms as ampoules, tablets, capsules, vials, ointments, powders, solutions, and suspensions.

Illustrative Examples:

Antibiotics merchant wholesalers
Endocrine substances merchant wholesalers
Blood derivatives merchant wholesalers
In-vitro and in-vivo diagnostics merchant wholesalers
Botanicals merchant wholesalers
Vaccines merchant wholesalers
Cosmetics merchant wholesalers
Vitamins merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of surgical, dental, and hospital
equipment are classified in Industry 423450, Medical, Dental, and Hospital Equipment and Supplies Merchant
Wholesalers.

4243      Apparel, Piece Goods, and Notions Merchant Wholesalers

42431     Piece Goods, Notions, and Other Dry Goods Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424310 below.

424310 Piece Goods, Notions, and Other Dry Goods Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of piece goods,
fabrics, knitting yarns (except industrial), thread and other notions, and/or hair accessories.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged as converters who buy fabric goods in the grey, have them finished on a
          contract basis, and sell at wholesale are classified in Industry 313310, Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills;
          and
      Establishments primarily engaged in merchant wholesale distribution of industrial yarns are classified in
          Industry 424990, Other Miscellaneous Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers.

42432     Men's and Boys' Clothing and Furnishings Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424320 below.

424320 Men's and Boys' Clothing and Furnishings Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of men's and/or
boys' clothing and furnishings.

Illustrative Examples:

Men's and boys' hosiery merchant wholesalers
Men's and boys' suits merchant wholesalers
Men's and boys' nightwear merchant wholesalers
Men's and boys' underwear merchant wholesalers
Men's and boys' sportswear merchant wholesalers
Men's and boys' work clothing merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of unisex clothing and men's fur clothing
are classified in Industry 424330, Women's, Children's, and Infants' Clothing and Accessories Merchant
Wholesalers.

42433     Women's, Children's, and Infants' Clothing and Accessories Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424330 below.

424330 Women's, Children's, and Infants' Clothing and Accessories Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of (1) women's,
children's, infants', and/or unisex clothing and accessories and/or (2) fur clothing.

Illustrative Examples:

Dresses merchant wholesalers
Millinery merchant wholesalers
Fur clothing merchant wholesalers
Women's, children's, and infants' hosiery merchant wholesalers
Lingerie merchant wholesalers

42434     Footwear Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424340 below.

424340 Footwear Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of footwear
(including athletic) of leather, rubber, and other materials.

4244      Grocery and Related Product Merchant Wholesalers

42441     General Line Grocery Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424410 below.

424410 General Line Grocery Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of a general line
(wide range) of groceries.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of a specialized line of groceries are
classified elsewhere in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade, according to the product sold.

42442     Packaged Frozen Food Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424420 below.

424420 Packaged Frozen Food Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of packaged
frozen foods (except dairy products).

Illustrative Examples:

Frozen bakery products merchant wholesalers
Packaged frozen fish merchant wholesalers
Frozen juices merchant wholesalers
Packaged frozen meats merchant wholesalers
Frozen vegetables merchant wholesalers
Packaged frozen poultry merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of frozen dairy products are classified in
Industry 424430, Dairy Product (except Dried or Canned) Merchant Wholesalers.

42443     Dairy Product (except Dried or Canned) Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424430 below.

424430 Dairy Product (except Dried or Canned) Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of dairy products
(except dried or canned).

Illustrative Examples:

Butter merchant wholesalers
Fluid milk (except canned) merchant wholesalers
Cheese merchant wholesalers
Ice cream and ices merchant wholesalers
Cream merchant wholesalers
Yogurt merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of dried or canned dairy products and dairy substitutes--are classified in
        Industry 424490, Other Grocery and Related Products Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Pasteurizing and bottling milk--are classified in U.S. Industry 311511, Fluid Milk Manufacturing.

42444   Poultry and Poultry Product Merchant Wholesalers
        See industry description for 424440 below.

424440 Poultry and Poultry Product Merchant Wholesalers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of poultry and/or
poultry products (except canned and packaged frozen).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of packaged frozen poultry--are classified in Industry 424420, Packaged
        Frozen Food Merchant Wholesalers;
     Merchant wholesale distribution of canned poultry--are classified in Industry 424490, Other Grocery and
        Related Products Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Slaughtering and dressing poultry--are classified in U.S. Industry 311615, Poultry Processing.

42445   Confectionery Merchant Wholesalers
        See industry description for 424450 below.

424450 Confectionery Merchant Wholesalers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
confectioneries; salted or roasted nuts; popcorn; potato, corn, and similar chips; and/or fountain fruits and syrups.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of frozen pretzels--are classified in Industry 424420, Packaged Frozen
        Food Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Merchant wholesale distribution of pretzels (except frozen)--are classified in Industry 424490, Other
        Grocery and Related Products Merchant Wholesalers.

42446   Fish and Seafood Merchant Wholesalers
        See industry description for 424460 below.

424460 Fish and Seafood Merchant Wholesalers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of fish and
seafood (except canned or packaged frozen).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Merchant wholesale distribution of packaged frozen fish and seafood--are classified in Industry 424420,
        Packaged Frozen Food Merchant Wholesalers;
     Merchant wholesale distribution of canned fish and seafood--are classified in Industry 424490, Other
        Grocery and Related Products Merchant Wholesalers; and
     Canning, smoking, salting, drying, or freezing seafood and shucking and packing fresh shellfish--are
        classified in Industry 311710, Seafood Product Preparation and Packaging.

42447     Meat and Meat Product Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424470 below.

424470 Meat and Meat Product Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of meats and
meat products (except canned and packaged frozen) and/or lard.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of packaged frozen meats--are classified in Industry 424420, Packaged
          Frozen Food Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of canned meats--are classified in Industry 424490, Other Grocery and
          Related Products Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Preparing boxed beef--are classified in U.S. Industry 311612, Meat Processed from Carcasses.

42448     Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424480 below.

424480 Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of fresh fruits
and vegetables.

42449     Other Grocery and Related Products Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424490 below.

424490 Other Grocery and Related Products Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of groceries and
related products (except a general line of groceries; packaged frozen food; dairy products (except dried and canned);
poultry products (except canned); confectioneries; fish and seafood (except canned); meat products (except canned);
and fresh fruits and vegetables). Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in the bottling and
merchant wholesale distribution of spring and mineral waters processed by others.

Illustrative Examples:

Bakery products (except frozen) merchant wholesalers
Canned seafood merchant wholesalers
Canned fish merchant wholesalers
Canned vegetables merchant wholesalers
Canned fruits merchant wholesalers
Dried milk merchant wholesalers
Canned meats merchant wholesalers
Soft drinks merchant wholesalers
Canned milk merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of grains, field beans, livestock, and other farm product raw materials--are
          classified in Industry Group 4245, Farm Product Raw Material Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of beer, wine, and distilled alcoholic beverages--are classified in Industry
          Group 4248, Beer, Wine, and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Merchant Wholesalers;
      Bottling soft drinks--are classified in Industry 31211, Soft Drink and Ice Manufacturing;

      Merchant wholesale distribution of a general line of groceries--are classified in Industry 424410, General
          Line Grocery Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of packaged frozen foods (except dairy)--are classified in Industry 424420,
          Packaged Frozen Food Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of dairy products--are classified in Industry 424430, Dairy Product (except
          Dried or Canned) Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of poultry and poultry products (except canned and packaged frozen)--are
          classified in Industry 424440, Poultry and Poultry Product Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of confectioneries; salted or roasted nuts; popcorn; potato, corn, and
          similar chips; and/or fountain fruits and syrups--are classified in Industry 424450, Confectionery Merchant
          Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of fish and seafoods (except canned and packaged frozen)--are classified
          in Industry 424460, Fish and Seafood Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of meats (except canned and packaged frozen)--are classified in Industry
          424470, Meat and Meat Product Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of fresh fruits and vegetables--are classified in Industry 424480, Fresh
          Fruit and Vegetable Merchant Wholesalers;
      Purifying and bottling water--are classified in U.S. Industry 312112, Bottled Water Manufacturing; and
      Roasting coffee--are classified in Industry 311920, Coffee and Tea Manufacturing.

4245      Farm Product Raw Material Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
agricultural products (except raw milk, live poultry, and fresh fruits and vegetables), such as grains, field beans,
livestock, and other farm product raw materials (excluding seeds).

42451     Grain and Field Bean Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424510 below.

424510 Grain and Field Bean Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of grains, such
as corn, wheat, oats, barley, and unpolished rice; dry beans; and soybeans and other inedible beans. Included in this
industry are establishments primarily engaged in operating country or terminal grain elevators primarily for the
purpose of wholesaling.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of field and garden seeds--are classified in Industry 424910, Farm
          Supplies Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Operating grain elevators for storage only--are classified in Industry 493130, Farm Product Warehousing
          and Storage.

42452     Livestock Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424520 below.

424520 Livestock Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of livestock
(except horses and mules).

Illustrative Examples:

Cattle merchant wholesalers
Hogs merchant wholesalers

Goats merchant wholesalers
Sheep merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of horses and mules are classified in
Industry 424590, Other Farm Product Raw Material Merchant Wholesalers.

42459     Other Farm Product Raw Material Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424590 below.

424590 Other Farm Product Raw Material Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of farm products
(except grain and field beans, livestock, raw milk, live poultry, and fresh fruits and vegetables).

Illustrative Examples:

Chicks merchant wholesalers
Mules merchant wholesalers
Hides merchant wholesalers
Raw cotton merchant wholesalers
Horses merchant wholesalers
Raw pelts merchant wholesalers
Leaf tobacco merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of raw milk--are classified in Industry 424430, Dairy Product (except
          Dried or Canned) Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of live poultry (except chicks)--are classified in Industry 424440, Poultry
          and Poultry Product Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of grain, dry beans, and soybeans and other inedible beans--are classified
          in Industry 424510, Grain and Field Bean Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of livestock (except horses and mules), such as cattle, hogs, sheep, and
          goats--are classified in Industry 424520, Livestock Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of fresh fruits and vegetables--are classified in Industry 424480, Fresh
          Fruit and Vegetable Merchant Wholesalers.

4246      Chemical and Allied Products Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
chemicals, plastics materials and basic forms and shapes, and allied products.

42461     Plastics Materials and Basic Forms and Shapes Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424610 below.

424610 Plastics Materials and Basic Forms and Shapes Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of plastics
materials and resins, and unsupported plastics film, sheet, sheeting, rod, tube, and other basic forms and shapes.

42469     Other Chemical and Allied Products Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424690 below.

424690 Other Chemical and Allied Products Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of chemicals and
allied products (except agricultural and medicinal chemicals, paints and varnishes, fireworks, and plastics materials
and basic forms and shapes).

Illustrative Examples:

Acids merchant wholesalers
Industrial chemicals merchant wholesalers
Automotive chemicals (except lubricating oils and greases) merchant wholesalers
Industrial salts merchant wholesalers
Dyestuffs merchant wholesalers
Rosins merchant wholesalers
Explosives (except ammunition and fireworks) merchant wholesalers
Turpentine merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of ammunition--are classified in Industry Group 4239, Miscellaneous
          Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of biological and medical products; botanical drugs and herbs; and
          pharmaceutical products intended for internal and external consumption in such forms as ampoules, tablets,
          capsules, vials, ointments, powders, solutions, and suspensions--are classified in Industry 424210, Drugs
          and Druggists' Sundries Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of farm supplies, such as animal feeds, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals,
          pesticides, seeds and plant bulbs--are classified in Industry 424910, Farm Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of paints, varnishes, and similar coatings, pigments, wallpaper, and
          supplies, such as paint brushes and rollers--are classified in Industry 424950, Paint, Varnish, and Supplies
          Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of lubricating oils and greases--are classified in Industry 424720,
          Petroleum and Petroleum Products Merchant Wholesalers (except Bulk Stations and Terminals);
      Merchant wholesale distribution of fireworks--are classified in Industry 423920, Toy and Hobby Goods
          and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of plastics materials and resins, and unsupported plastics film, sheet,
          sheeting, rod, tube, and other basic forms and shapes--are classified in Industry 424610, Plastics Materials
          and Basic Forms and Shapes Merchant Wholesalers.

4247      Petroleum and Petroleum Products Merchant Wholesalers

42471     Petroleum Bulk Stations and Terminals
          See industry description for 424710 below.

424710 Petroleum Bulk Stations and Terminals

  This industry comprises establishments with bulk liquid storage facilities primarily engaged in the merchant
wholesale distribution of crude petroleum and petroleum products, including liquefied petroleum gas.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in bulk storage of petroleum are classified in Industry 493190, Other
Warehousing and Storage.

42472     Petroleum and Petroleum Products Merchant Wholesalers (except Bulk Stations and Terminals)
          See industry description for 424720 below.

424720 Petroleum and Petroleum Products Merchant Wholesalers (except Bulk Stations and Terminals)

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of petroleum and
petroleum products (except from bulk liquid storage facilities).

Illustrative Examples:

Bottled liquid petroleum gas merchant wholesalers
Gasoline merchant wholesalers (except bulk stations, terminals)
Fuel oil merchant wholesalers (except bulk stations, terminals)
Lubricating oil and grease merchant wholesalers (except bulk stations, terminals)

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of crude petroleum and petroleum
products from bulk liquid storage facilities are classified in Industry 424710, Petroleum Bulk Stations and
Terminals.

4248      Beer, Wine, and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Merchant Wholesalers

42481     Beer and Ale Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424810 below.

424810 Beer and Ale Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of beer, ale,
porter, and other fermented malt beverages.

42482     Wine and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424820 below.

424820 Wine and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of wine, distilled
alcoholic beverages, and/or neutral spirits and ethyl alcohol used in blended wines and distilled liquors.

4249      Miscellaneous Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of
nondurable goods, such as farm supplies; books, periodicals and newspapers; flowers; nursery stock; paints;
varnishes; tobacco and tobacco products; and other miscellaneous nondurable goods, such as cut Christmas trees and
pet supplies.

42491     Farm Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424910 below.

424910 Farm Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of farm supplies,
such as animal feeds, fertilizers, agricultural chemicals, pesticides, plant seeds, and plant bulbs.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of pet food--are classified in Industry 424490, Other Grocery and Related
          Products Merchant Wholesalers;

      Merchant wholesale distribution of grains--are classified in Industry 424510, Grain and Field Bean
           Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of pet supplies--are classified in Industry 424990, Other Miscellaneous
           Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of nursery stock (except seeds and plant bulbs)--are classified in Industry
           424930, Flower, Nursery Stock, and Florists' Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

42492      Book, Periodical, and Newspaper Merchant Wholesalers
           See industry description for 424920 below.

424920 Book, Periodical, and Newspaper Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of books,
periodicals, and newspapers.

42493      Flower, Nursery Stock, and Florists' Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
           See industry description for 424930 below.

424930 Flower, Nursery Stock, and Florists' Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of flowers,
florists' supplies, and/or nursery stock (except plant seeds and plant bulbs).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Merchant wholesale distribution of cut Christmas trees--are classified in Industry 424990, Other
           Miscellaneous Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of plant seeds and plant bulbs--are classified in Industry 424910, Farm
           Supplies Merchant Wholesalers.

42494      Tobacco and Tobacco Product Merchant Wholesalers
           See industry description for 424940 below.

424940 Tobacco and Tobacco Product Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of tobacco
products, such as cigarettes, snuff, cigars, and pipe tobacco.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of leaf tobacco are classified in Industry
424590, Other Farm Product Raw Material Merchant Wholesalers.

42495      Paint, Varnish, and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
           See industry description for 424950 below.

424950 Paint, Varnish, and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of paints,
varnishes, and similar coatings; pigments; wallpaper; and supplies, such as paint brushes and rollers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of artists' paints are classified in Industry
424990, Other Miscellaneous Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers.

42499     Other Miscellaneous Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers
          See industry description for 424990 below.

424990 Other Miscellaneous Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the merchant wholesale distribution of nondurable
goods (except printing and writing paper; stationery and office supplies; industrial and personal service paper; drugs
and druggists' sundries; apparel, piece goods, and notions; grocery and related products; farm product raw materials;
chemical and allied products; petroleum and petroleum products; beer, wine, and distilled alcoholic beverages; farm
supplies; books, periodicals and newspapers; flower, nursery stock and florists' supplies; tobacco and tobacco
products; and paint, varnishes, wallpaper, and supplies).

Illustrative Examples:

Artists' supplies merchant wholesalers
Pet supplies (except pet food) merchant wholesalers
Burlap merchant wholesalers
Statuary goods (except religious) merchant wholesalers
Christmas trees merchant wholesalers
Textile bags merchant wholesalers
Industrial yarn merchant wholesalers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Distribution of advertising specialties--are classified in Industry 541890, Other Services Related to
          Advertising;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of farm supplies--are classified in Industry 424910, Farm Supplies
          Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of books, periodicals, and newspapers--are classified in Industry 424920,
          Book, Periodical, and Newspaper Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of flowers, nursery stock, and florists' supplies--are classified in Industry
          424930, Flower, Nursery Stock, and Florists' Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of tobacco and its products--are classified in Industry 424940, Tobacco
          and Tobacco Product Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of paints, varnishes, and similar coatings; pigments; wallpaper; and
          supplies--are classified in Industry 424950, Paint, Varnish, and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of bulk printing and/or writing paper--are classified in Industry 424110,
          Printing and Writing Paper Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of stationery, office supplies, and/or gift wrap--are classified in Industry
          424120, Stationery and Office Supplies Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of wrapping and other coarse paper, paperboard, converted paper (except
          stationery and office supplies), and related disposable plastics products--are classified in Industry 424130,
          Industrial and Personal Service Paper Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of biological and medical products; botanical drugs and herbs; and
          pharmaceutical products intended for internal and external consumption--are classified in Industry 424210,
          Drugs and Druggists' Sundries Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of clothing and accessories, footwear, piece goods, yard goods, notions,
          and/or hair accessories--are classified in Industry Group 4243, Apparel, Piece Goods, and Notions
          Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of meat, poultry, seafood, confectioneries, fruits and vegetables; and other
          groceries and related products--are classified in Industry Group 4244, Grocery and Related Product
          Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of grains, field beans, livestock, and other farm product raw materials--are
          classified in Industry Group 4245, Farm Product Raw Material Merchant Wholesalers;

      Merchant wholesale distribution of chemicals; plastics materials and basic forms and shapes; and allied
          products--are classified in Industry Group 4246, Chemical and Allied Products Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of petroleum and petroleum products--are classified in Industry Group
          4247, Petroleum and Petroleum Products Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of beer, ale, wine, and distilled alcoholic beverages--are classified in
          Industry Group 4248, Beer, Wine, and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of pet foods--are classified in Industry 424490, Other Grocery and Related
          Products Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of religious statuary--are classified in Industry 423990, Other
          Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of knitting yarns (except industrial)--are classified in Industry 424310,
          Piece Goods, Notions, and Other Dry Goods Merchant Wholesalers.

425       Wholesale Electronic Markets and Agents and Brokers

  Industries in the Wholesale Electronic Markets and Agents and Brokers subsector arrange for the sale of goods
owned by others, generally on a fee or commission basis. They act on behalf of the buyers and sellers of goods.
This subsector contains agents and brokers as well as business to business electronic markets that facilitate
wholesale trade.

4251      Wholesale Electronic Markets and Agents and Brokers

42511     Business to Business Electronic Markets
          See industry description for 425110 below.

425110 Business to Business Electronic Markets

  This industry comprises business-to-business electronic markets bringing together buyers and sellers of goods
using the Internet or other electronic means and generally receiving a commission or fee for the service. Business-
to-business electronic markets for durable and nondurable goods are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in bringing together buyers and sellers of goods using the Internet in a
business-to-consumer or consumer-to-consumer environment are classified in Industry 45411, Electronic Shopping
and Mail-Order Houses.

42512     Wholesale Trade Agents and Brokers
          See industry description for 425120 below.

425120 Wholesale Trade Agents and Brokers

  This industry comprises wholesale trade agents and brokers acting on behalf of buyers or sellers in the wholesale
distribution of goods. Agents and brokers do not take title to the goods being sold but rather receive a commission
or fee for their service. Agents and brokers for all durable and nondurable goods are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Independent sales representatives
Manufacturers' sales representatives

Cross-References.

  Establishments acting in the capacity of agents or brokers that operate using the Internet or other electronic means
instead of a sales force are classified in Industry 425110, Business to Business Electronic Markets.


                                         Sector 44-45--Retail Trade               T


                                                 The Sector as a Whole

  The Retail Trade sector comprises establishments engaged in retailing merchandise, generally without
transformation, and rendering services incidental to the sale of merchandise.
  The retailing process is the final step in the distribution of merchandise; retailers are, therefore, organized to sell
merchandise in small quantities to the general public. This sector comprises two main types of retailers: store and
nonstore retailers.

1. Store retailers operate fixed point-of-sale locations, located and designed to attract a high volume of walk-in
customers. In general, retail stores have extensive displays of merchandise and use mass-media advertising to
attract customers. They typically sell merchandise to the general public for personal or household consumption, but
some also serve business and institutional clients. These include establishments, such as office supply stores,
computer and software stores, building materials dealers, plumbing supply stores, and electrical supply stores.
Catalog showrooms, gasoline stations, automotive dealers, and mobile home dealers are treated as store retailers.
  In addition to retailing merchandise, some types of store retailers are also engaged in the provision of after-sales
services, such as repair and installation. For example, new automobile dealers, electronics and appliance stores, and
musical instrument and supplies stores often provide repair services. As a general rule, establishments engaged in
retailing merchandise and providing after-sales services are classified in this sector.
  The first eleven subsectors of retail trade are store retailers. The establishments are grouped into industries and
industry groups typically based on one or more of the following criteria:

  (a) The merchandise line or lines carried by the store; for example, specialty stores are distinguished from general-
line stores.

  (b) The usual trade designation of the establishments. This criterion applies in cases where a store type is well
recognized by the industry and the public, but difficult to define strictly in terms of merchandise lines carried; for
example, pharmacies, hardware stores, and department stores.

  (c) Capital requirements in terms of display equipment; for example, food stores have equipment requirements not
found in other retail industries.

  (d) Human resource requirements in terms of expertise; for example, the staff of an automobile dealer requires
knowledge in financing, registering, and licensing issues that are not necessary in other retail industries.

2. Nonstore retailers, like store retailers, are organized to serve the general public, but their retailing methods
differ. The establishments of this subsector reach customers and market merchandise with methods, such as the
broadcasting of "infomercials," the broadcasting and publishing of direct-response advertising, the publishing of
paper and electronic catalogs, door-to-door solicitation, in-home demonstration, selling from portable stalls (street
vendors, except food), and distribution through vending machines. Establishments engaged in the direct sale
(nonstore) of products, such as home heating oil dealers and home delivery newspaper routes are included here.
  The buying of goods for resale is a characteristic of retail trade establishments that particularly distinguishes them
from establishments in the agriculture, manufacturing, and construction industries. For example, farms that sell their
products at or from the point of production are not classified in retail, but rather in agriculture. Similarly,
establishments that both manufacture and sell their products to the general public are not classified in retail, but
rather in manufacturing. However, establishments that engage in processing activities incidental to retailing are
classified in retail. This includes establishments, such as optical goods stores that do in-store grinding of lenses, and
meat and seafood markets.
  Wholesalers also engage in the buying of goods for resale, but they are not usually organized to serve the general
public. They typically operate from a warehouse or office and neither the design nor the location of these premises
is intended to solicit a high volume of walk-in traffic. Wholesalers supply institutional, industrial, wholesale, and
retail clients; their operations are, therefore, generally organized to purchase, sell, and deliver merchandise in larger
quantities. However, dealers of durable nonconsumer goods, such as farm machinery and heavy-duty trucks, are
included in wholesale trade even if they often sell these products in single units.

441       Motor Vehicle and Parts Dealers

  Industries in the Motor Vehicle and Parts Dealers subsector retail motor vehicles and parts from fixed point-of-sale
locations. Establishments in this subsector typically operate from a showroom and/or an open lot where the vehicles
are on display. The display of vehicles and the related parts require little by way of display equipment. The
personnel generally include both the sales and sales support staff familiar with the requirements for registering and
financing a vehicle as well as a staff of parts experts and mechanics trained to provide repair and maintenance
services for the vehicles. Specific industries have been included in this subsector to identify the type of vehicle
being retailed.
  Sales of capital or durable nonconsumer goods, such as medium- and heavy-duty trucks, are always included in
wholesale trade. These goods are virtually never sold through retail methods.

4411      Automobile Dealers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new and used automobiles and light
trucks, such as sport utility vehicles, and passenger and cargo vans.

44111     New Car Dealers
          See industry description for 441110 below.

441110 New Car Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new automobiles and light trucks, such as
sport utility vehicles, and passenger and cargo vans, or retailing these new vehicles in combination with activities,
such as repair services, retailing used cars, and selling replacement parts and accessories.

Illustrative Examples:

Automobile dealers, new only, or new and used
Light utility truck dealers, new only, or new and used

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing used automobiles and light trucks without retailing new automobiles and light trucks--are
          classified in Industry 441120, Used Car Dealers;
      Providing automotive repair services without retailing new automotive vehicles--are classified in Industry
          Group 8111, Automotive Repair and Maintenance; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of new medium- and heavy-duty trucks, buses, and other motor vehicles--
          are classified in Industry 423110, Automobile and Other Motor Vehicle Merchant Wholesalers.

44112     Used Car Dealers
          See industry description for 441120 below.

441120 Used Car Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing used automobiles and light trucks, such as
sport utility vehicles, and passenger and cargo vans.

Illustrative Examples:

Antique auto dealers
Light truck dealers, used only
Automobile dealers, used only

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing new automobiles and light trucks--are classified in Industry 441110, New Car Dealers; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of used medium- and heavy-duty trucks, buses, and other motor vehicles--
          are classified in Industry 423110, Automobile and Other Motor Vehicle Merchant Wholesalers.

4412      Other Motor Vehicle Dealers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new and used vehicles (except
automobiles, light trucks, such as sport utility vehicles, and passenger and cargo vans).

44121     Recreational Vehicle Dealers
          See industry description for 441210 below.

441210 Recreational Vehicle Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new and/or used recreational vehicles
commonly referred to as RVs or retailing these new vehicles in combination with activities, such as repair services
and selling replacement parts and accessories.

Illustrative Examples:

Motor home dealers
Recreational vehicle (RV) parts and accessories stores
Recreational vehicle (RV) dealers
Travel trailer dealers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing new or used boat trailers and utility trailers--are classified in Industry 44122, Motorcycle, Boat,
          and Other Motor Vehicle Dealers; and
      Retailing manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes), parts, and equipment--are classified in Industry
          453930, Manufactured (Mobile) Home Dealers.

44122     Motorcycle, Boat, and Other Motor Vehicle Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new and used motorcycles, boats, and other
vehicles (except automobiles, light trucks, and recreational vehicles), or retailing these new vehicles in combination
with activities, such as repair services and selling replacement parts and accessories.

Illustrative Examples:

Aircraft dealers
Motorcycle dealers
All-terrain vehicle (ATV) dealers
Utility trailer dealers
Boat dealers, new and used

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing new nonmotorized bicycles, surfboards, or wind sail boards--are classified in Industry 45111,
          Sporting Goods Stores;
      Retailing used nonmotorized bicycles, surfboards, or wind sail boards--are classified in Industry 45331,
          Used Merchandise Stores;
      Retailing new or used automobiles and light trucks--are classified in Industry Group 4411, Automobile
          Dealers;

      Retailing new or used recreational vehicles, such as travel trailers--are classified in Industry 44121,
          Recreational Vehicle Dealers;
      Providing repair services for vehicles without retailing new vehicles--are classified in the appropriate
          industry for the repair services; and
      Retailing fuel and marine supplies at a marina--are classified in Industry 71393, Marinas.

441222 Boat Dealers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) retailing new and/or used boats or retailing
new boats in combination with activities, such as repair services and selling replacement parts and accessories,
and/or (2) retailing new and/or used outboard motors, boat trailers, marine supplies, parts, and accessories.

Illustrative Examples:

Boat dealers (e.g., powerboats, rowboats, sailboats)
Outboard motor dealers
Marine supply dealers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing new surfboards or wind sail boards--are classified in Industry 451110, Sporting Goods Stores;
      Retailing used surfboards or wind sail boards--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores;
      Providing boat repair services without retailing new boats--are classified in Industry 811490, Other
          Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance;
      Retailing new or used personal watercraft--are classified in U.S. Industry 441228, Motorcycle, ATV, and
          All Other Motor Vehicle Dealers; and
      Operating docking and/or storage facilities for pleasure craft owners--are classified in Industry 713930,
          Marinas.

441228 Motorcycle, ATV, and All Other Motor Vehicle Dealers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new and/or used motorcycles, motor
scooters, motorbikes, mopeds, off-road all-terrain vehicles, personal watercraft, utility trailers, and other motor
vehicles (except automobiles, light trucks, recreational vehicles, and boats) or retailing these new vehicles in
combination with activities such as repair services and selling replacement parts and accessories.

Illustrative Examples:

All-terrain vehicle (ATV) dealers
Motorcycle dealers
Moped dealers
Motorcycle parts and accessories dealers
Personal watercraft dealers
Aircraft dealers
Snowmobile dealers
Powered golf cart dealers
Utility trailer dealers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing new automobiles and light trucks--are classified in Industry 441110, New Car Dealers;
      Retailing used automobiles and light trucks--are classified in Industry 441120, Used Car Dealers;
      Retailing new or used recreational vehicles, such as travel trailers--are classified in Industry 441210,
          Recreational Vehicle Dealers;

      Retailing new or used boats, outboard motors, boat trailers, and marine supplies--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 441222, Boat Dealers;
      Retailing new nonmotorized bicycles--are classified in Industry 451110, Sporting Goods Stores;
      Retailing used nonmotorized bicycles--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores; and
      Providing vehicle repair services without retailing new vehicles--are classified in the appropriate industry
          for the repair services.

4413      Automotive Parts, Accessories, and Tire Stores

44131     Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores
          See industry description for 441310 below.

441310 Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores

  This industry comprises one or more of the following: (1) establishments known as automotive supply stores
primarily engaged in retailing new, used, and/or rebuilt automotive parts and accessories; (2) automotive supply
stores that are primarily engaged in both retailing automotive parts and accessories and repairing automobiles; and
(3) establishments primarily engaged in retailing and installing automotive accessories.

Illustrative Examples:

Automotive parts and supply stores
Truck cap stores
Automotive stereo stores
Used automotive parts stores
Speed shops

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing automotive parts and accessories via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing new or used tires--are classified in Industry 441320, Tire Dealers; and
      Repairing and replacing automotive parts, such as transmissions, mufflers, and brake linings (except
          establishments known as automotive supply stores)--are classified in Industry 81111, Automotive
          Mechanical and Electrical Repair and Maintenance.

44132     Tire Dealers
          See industry description for 441320 below.

441320 Tire Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new and/or used tires and tubes or retailing
new tires in combination with automotive repair services.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing tires via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in Subsector 454,
          Nonstore Retailers;
      Tire retreading or recapping--are classified in U.S. Industry 326212, Tire Retreading; and
      Merchant wholesale distribution of new/used tires for medium- and heavy-duty trucks, buses, and other
          motor vehicles--are classified in Industry 423130, Tire and Tube Merchant Wholesalers.

442       Furniture and Home Furnishings Stores

  Industries in the Furniture and Home Furnishings Stores subsector retail new furniture and home furnishings from
fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector usually operate from showrooms and have substantial
areas for the presentation of their products. Many offer interior decorating services in addition to the sale of
products.

4421     Furniture Stores

44211    Furniture Stores
         See industry description for 442110 below.

442110 Furniture Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new furniture, such as household furniture
(e.g., baby furniture, box springs, and mattresses) and outdoor furniture; office furniture (except those sold in
combination with office supplies and equipment); and/or furniture sold in combination with major appliances, home
electronics, home furnishings, or floor coverings.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing furniture via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in Subsector 454,
         Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing used furniture--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores;
      Retailing custom furniture made on premises--are classified in Subsector 337, Furniture and Related
         Product Manufacturing; and
      Retailing new office furniture and a range of new office equipment and supplies--are classified in Industry
         453210, Office Supplies and Stationery Stores.

4422     Home Furnishings Stores

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new home furnishings (except
furniture).

44221    Floor Covering Stores
         See industry description for 442210 below.

442210 Floor Covering Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new floor coverings, such as rugs and
carpets, vinyl floor coverings, and floor tile (except ceramic or wood only); or retailing new floor coverings in
combination with installation and repair services.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing floor coverings via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
         Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Installing floor coverings without retailing new floor coverings--are classified in Industry 238330, Flooring
         Contractors;
      Retailing ceramic floor tile or wood floor coverings only--are classified in Industry 444190, Other Building
         Material Dealers; and
      Retailing used rugs and carpets--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

44229    Other Home Furnishings Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new home furnishings (except furniture and
floor coverings).

Illustrative Examples:

Bath shops
Kitchenware stores
Chinaware stores
Window treatment stores
Glassware stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing home furnishings via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing custom curtains and draperies made on premises--are classified in Industry 31412, Curtain and
          Linen Mills;
      Retailing new mirrored glass, lighting fixtures, and new ceramic floor tile or wood floor coverings only--
          are classified in Industry 44419, Other Building Material Dealers;
      Retailing new furniture--are classified in Industry 44211, Furniture Stores;
      Retailing new floor coverings (except ceramic or wood only)--are classified in Industry 44221, Floor
          Covering Stores; and
      Retailing used home furnishings--are classified in Industry 45331, Used Merchandise Stores.

442291 Window Treatment Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new window treatments, such as
curtains, drapes, blinds, and shades.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing window treatments via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers; and
      Retailing custom curtains and draperies made on premises--are classified in Industry 314120, Curtain and
          Linen Mills.

442299 All Other Home Furnishings Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new home furnishings (except floor
coverings, furniture, and window treatments).

Illustrative Examples:

Bath shops
Kitchenware stores
Chinaware stores
Linen stores
Electric lamp shops
Picture frame stores
Glassware stores
Wood-burning stove stores
Houseware stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing home furnishings via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;

      Retailing new mirrored glass or lighting fixtures--are classified in Industry 444190, Other Building
          Material Dealers;
      Retailing new furniture--are classified in Industry 442110, Furniture Stores;
      Retailing new floor coverings--are classified in Industry 442210, Floor Covering Stores;
      Retailing new window treatments--are classified in U.S. Industry 442291, Window Treatment Stores; and
      Retailing used home furnishings--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

443       Electronics and Appliance Stores

  Industries in the Electronics and Appliance Stores subsector retail new electronics and appliances from point-of-
sale locations. Establishments in this subsector often operate from locations that have special provisions for floor
displays requiring special electrical capacity to accommodate the proper demonstration of the products. The staff
includes sales personnel knowledgeable in the characteristics and warranties of the line of goods retailed and may
also include trained repair persons to handle the maintenance and repair of the electronic equipment and appliances.
The classifications within this subsector are made principally on the type of product and knowledge required to
operate each type of store.

4431      Electronics and Appliance Stores

44314     Electronics and Appliance Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) retailing an array of new
household-type appliances and consumer-type electronic products, such as televisions, computers, and cameras; (2)
specializing in retailing a single line of new consumer-type electronic products; (3) retailing these new products in
combination with repair and support services; (4) retailing new prepackaged computer software; and/or (5) retailing
prerecorded audio and video media, such as CDs, DVDs, and tapes.

Illustrative Examples:

Appliance stores, household-type
Consumer-type electronic stores (e.g., televisions, computers, cameras)

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing new appliance and electronic products via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--
          are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing new computers, computer peripherals, and prepackaged software in combination with retailing
          new office equipment, office furniture, and office supplies--are classified in Industry 45321, Office
          Supplies and Stationery Stores;
      Retailing new sewing machines in combination with selling new sewing supplies, fabrics, patterns, yarns,
          and other needlework accessories--are classified in Industry 45113, Sewing, Needlework, and Piece Goods
          Stores;
      Retailing new electronic toys, such as dedicated game consoles and handheld electronic games--are
          classified in Industry 45112, Hobby, Toy, and Game Stores;
      Providing television or other electronic equipment repair services without retailing new televisions or
          electronic equipment--are classified in Industry 81121, Electronic and Precision Equipment Repair and
          Maintenance;
      Providing household-type appliance repair services without retailing new appliances--are classified in
          Industry 81141, Home and Garden Equipment and Appliance Repair and Maintenance;
      Developing film and/or making photographic slides, prints, and enlargements without retailing a range of
          new photographic equipment and supplies--are classified in Industry 81292, Photofinishing;
      Retailing used appliance and electronic products--are classified in Industry 45331, Used Merchandise
          Stores; and
      Retailing automotive electronic sound systems--are classified in Industry 44131, Automotive Parts and
          Accessories Stores.

443141 Household Appliance Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as appliance stores primarily engaged in retailing an array of
new household appliances, such as refrigerators, dishwashers, ovens, irons, coffeemakers, hair dryers, electric
razors, room air-conditioners, microwave ovens, sewing machines, and vacuum cleaners, or retailing new appliances
in combination with appliance repair services.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing household appliances via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing new sewing machines in combination with selling new sewing supplies, fabrics, patterns, yarns,
          and other needlework accessories--are classified in Industry 451130, Sewing, Needlework, and Piece
          Goods Stores;
      Providing household-type appliance repair services without retailing new appliances--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 811412, Appliance Repair and Maintenance; and
      Retailing used appliances--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

443142 Electronics Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises: (1) establishments known as consumer electronics stores primarily engaged in
retailing a general line of new consumer-type electronic products such as televisions, computers, and cameras; (2)
establishments specializing in retailing a single line of consumer-type electronic products; (3) establishments
primarily engaged in retailing these new electronic products in combination with repair and support services; (4)
establishments primarily engaged in retailing new prepackaged computer software; and/or (5) establishments
primarily engaged in retailing prerecorded audio and video media, such as CDs, DVDs, and tapes.

Illustrative Examples:

Consumer-type electronic stores (e.g., televisions, computers, cameras)
Stereo stores (except automotive)
Radio and television stores
Computer stores
Camera shops, photographic

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing electronic goods via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing automotive electronic sound systems--are classified in Industry 441310, Automotive Parts and
          Accessories Stores;
      Retailing new computers, computer peripherals, and prepackaged software in combination with retailing
          new office equipment, office furniture, and office supplies--are classified in Industry 453210, Office
          Supplies and Stationery Stores;
      Providing television or other electronic equipment repair services without retailing new televisions or
          electronic products--are classified in Industry 81121, Electronic and Precision Equipment Repair and
          Maintenance;
      Developing film and/or making photographic slides, prints, and enlargements without retailing a range of
          new photographic equipment and supplies--are classified in Industry 81292, Photofinishing;
      Retailing new electronic toys, such as dedicated video game consoles and handheld electronic games--are
          classified in Industry 451120, Hobby, Toy, and Game Stores; and
      Retailing used electronics--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

444       Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers

 Industries in the Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers subsector retail new building
material and garden equipment and supplies from fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector
have display equipment designed to handle lumber and related products and garden equipment and supplies that may
be kept either indoors or outdoors under covered areas. The staff is usually knowledgeable in the use of the specific
products being retailed in the construction, repair, and maintenance of the home and associated grounds.

4441     Building Material and Supplies Dealers

 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new building materials and supplies.

44411    Home Centers
         See industry description for 444110 below.

444110 Home Centers

 This industry comprises establishments known as home centers primarily engaged in retailing a general line of
new home repair and improvement materials and supplies, such as lumber, plumbing goods, electrical goods, tools,
housewares, hardware, and lawn and garden supplies, with no one merchandise line predominating. The
merchandise lines are normally arranged in separate departments.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new hardware items, such as tools and builders'
hardware are classified in Industry 444130, Hardware Stores.

44412    Paint and Wallpaper Stores
         See industry description for 444120 below.

444120 Paint and Wallpaper Stores

 This industry comprises establishments known as paint and wallpaper stores primarily engaged in retailing paint,
wallpaper, and related supplies.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in retailing automotive paints are classified in Industry 441310, Automotive
Parts and Accessories Stores.

44413    Hardware Stores
         See industry description for 444130 below.

444130 Hardware Stores

 This industry comprises establishments known as hardware stores primarily engaged in retailing a general line of
new hardware items, such as tools and builders' hardware.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing hardware items via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
         Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
     Retailing a general line of home repair and improvement materials and supplies, known as home centers--
         are classified in Industry 444110, Home Centers; and
     Retailing used hardware items--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

44419    Other Building Material Dealers

          See industry description for 444190 below.

444190 Other Building Material Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments (except those known as home centers, paint and wallpaper stores, and
hardware stores) primarily engaged in retailing specialized lines of new building materials, such as lumber, fencing,
glass, doors, plumbing fixtures and supplies, electrical supplies, prefabricated buildings and kits, and kitchen and
bath cabinets and countertops to be installed.

Illustrative Examples:

Electrical supply stores
Kitchen cabinet (except custom) stores
Fencing dealers
Lumber yards, retail
Floor covering stores, wood or ceramic tile only
Plumbing supply stores
Garage door dealers
Prefabricated building dealers
Glass stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing building materials via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing used building materials--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores;
      Providing carpentry/installation services for products--are classified in Industry 238350, Finish Carpentry
          Contractors;
      Installing plumbing fixtures and supplies--are classified in Industry 238220, Plumbing, Heating, and Air-
          Conditioning Contractors;
      Installing electrical supplies, such as lighting fixtures and ceiling fans--are classified in Industry 238210,
          Electrical Contractors and Other Wiring Installation Contractors;
      Making custom furniture (e.g., kitchen cabinets)--are classified in Subsector 337, Furniture and Related
          Product Manufacturing;
      Retailing a general line of new hardware items, known as hardware stores--are classified in Industry
          444130, Hardware Stores;
      Retailing paint and wallpaper, known as paint and wallpaper stores--are classified in Industry 444120, Paint
          and Wallpaper Stores; and
      Retailing a general line of home repair and improvement materials and supplies, known as home centers--
          are classified in Industry 444110, Home Centers.

4442      Lawn and Garden Equipment and Supplies Stores

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new lawn and garden equipment and
supplies.

44421     Outdoor Power Equipment Stores
          See industry description for 444210 below.

444210 Outdoor Power Equipment Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new outdoor power equipment or retailing
new outdoor power equipment in combination with activities, such as repair services and selling replacement parts.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing outdoor power equipment via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified
          in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Providing outdoor power equipment repair services without retailing new outdoor power equipment--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 811411, Home and Garden Equipment Repair and Maintenance; and
      Retailing used outdoor power equipment--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

44422     Nursery, Garden Center, and Farm Supply Stores
          See industry description for 444220 below.

444220 Nursery, Garden Center, and Farm Supply Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing nursery and garden products, such as trees,
shrubs, plants, seeds, bulbs, and sod, that are predominantly grown elsewhere. These establishments may sell a
limited amount of a product they grow themselves. Also included in this industry are establishments primarily
engaged in retailing farm supplies, such as animal (non-pet) feed.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing nursery and garden products via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Providing landscaping services--are classified in Industry 561730, Landscaping Services; and
      Growing and retailing nursery stock--are classified in U.S. Industry 111421, Nursery and Tree Production.

445       Food and Beverage Stores

  Industries in the Food and Beverage Stores subsector usually retail food and beverage merchandise from fixed
point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector have special equipment (e.g., freezers, refrigerated display
cases, refrigerators) for displaying food and beverage goods. They have staff trained in the processing of food
products to guarantee the proper storage and sanitary conditions required by regulatory authority.

4451      Grocery Stores

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of food products.

44511     Supermarkets and Other Grocery (except Convenience) Stores
          See industry description for 445110 below.

445110 Supermarkets and Other Grocery (except Convenience) Stores

  This industry comprises establishments generally known as supermarkets and grocery stores primarily engaged in
retailing a general line of food, such as canned and frozen foods; fresh fruits and vegetables; and fresh and prepared
meats, fish, and poultry. Included in this industry are delicatessen-type establishments primarily engaged in
retailing a general line of food.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing automotive fuels in combination with a convenience store or food mart--are classified in Industry
          447110, Gasoline Stations with Convenience Stores;
      Retailing a limited line of goods, known as convenience stores or food marts (except those with fuel
          pumps)--are classified in Industry 445120, Convenience Stores;
      Retailing frozen food and freezer meal plans via direct sales to residential customers--are classified in
          Industry 454390, Other Direct Selling Establishments;
      Providing food services in delicatessen-type establishments--are classified in U.S. Industry 722513,
          Limited-Service Restaurants; and

      Retailing fresh meat in delicatessen-type establishments--are classified in Industry 445210, Meat Markets.

44512     Convenience Stores
          See industry description for 445120 below.

445120 Convenience Stores

  This industry comprises establishments known as convenience stores or food marts (except those with fuel pumps)
primarily engaged in retailing a limited line of goods that generally includes milk, bread, soda, and snacks.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing a general line of food, known as supermarkets and grocery stores--are classified in Industry
          445110, Supermarkets and Other Grocery (except Convenience) Stores; and
      Retailing automotive fuels in combination with a convenience store or food mart--are classified in Industry
          447110, Gasoline Stations with Convenience Stores.

4452      Specialty Food Stores

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing specialized lines of food.

44521     Meat Markets
          See industry description for 445210 below.

445210 Meat Markets

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing fresh, frozen, or cured meats and poultry.
Delicatessen-type establishments primarily engaged in retailing fresh meat are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Baked ham stores
Meat markets
Butcher shops
Poultry dealers
Frozen meat shops

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing meat and poultry via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing a general line of food, known as supermarkets and grocery stores--are classified in Industry
          445110, Supermarkets and Other Grocery (except Convenience) Stores; and
      Providing food services in delicatessen-type establishments--are classified in U.S. Industry 722513,
          Limited-Service Restaurants.

44522     Fish and Seafood Markets
          See industry description for 445220 below.

445220 Fish and Seafood Markets

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing fresh, frozen, or cured fish and seafood
products.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in retailing fish and seafood products via electronic home shopping, mail-order,
or direct sale are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers.

44523     Fruit and Vegetable Markets
          See industry description for 445230 below.

445230 Fruit and Vegetable Markets

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing fresh fruits and vegetables.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing fruits and vegetables via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers; and
      Growing and selling vegetables and/or fruits at roadside stands--are classified in Subsector 111, Crop
          Production.

44529     Other Specialty Food Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing specialty foods (except meat, fish, seafood,
and fruits and vegetables) not for immediate consumption and not made on the premises.

Illustrative Examples:

Baked goods stores (except immediate consumption)
Dairy product stores
Coffee and tea (i.e., packaged) stores
Gourmet food stores
Confectionery (i.e., packaged) stores
Nut (i.e., packaged) stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing specialty foods via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing baked goods made on the premises, but not for immediate consumption--are classified in Industry
          31181, Bread and Bakery Product Manufacturing;
      Retailing fresh, frozen, or cured meats and poultry--are classified in Industry 44521, Meat Markets;
      Retailing fresh, frozen, or cured fish and seafood products--are classified in Industry 44522, Fish and
          Seafood Markets;
      Retailing fresh fruits and vegetables--are classified in Industry 44523, Fruit and Vegetable Markets;
      Retailing candy and confectionery products not for immediate consumption and made on premises--are
          classified in Industry Group 3113, Sugar and Confectionery Product Manufacturing; and
      Selling snack foods (e.g., doughnuts, bagels, ice cream, popcorn) for immediate consumption--are
          classified in Industry 72251, Restaurants and Other Eating Places.

445291 Baked Goods Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing baked goods not for immediate
consumption and not made on the premises.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing baked goods via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in Subsector
          454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Selling snack foods (e.g., doughnuts, bagels, ice cream, popcorn) for immediate consumption--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars; and
      Retailing baked goods made on the premises but not for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 311811, Retail Bakeries.

445292 Confectionery and Nut Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing candy and other confections, nuts, and
popcorn not for immediate consumption and not made on the premises.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing confectionery goods and nuts via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing confectionery goods and nuts made on premises and not packaged for immediate consumption--
          are classified in Industry Group 3113, Sugar and Confectionery Product Manufacturing;
      Selling snack foods (e.g., doughnuts, bagels, ice cream, popcorn) for immediate consumption--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars; and
      Retailing baked goods made on the premises but not for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 311811, Retail Bakeries.

445299 All Other Specialty Food Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing miscellaneous specialty foods (except
meat, fish, seafood, fruit and vegetables, confections, nuts, popcorn, and baked goods) not for immediate
consumption and not made on the premises.

Illustrative Examples:

Coffee and tea (i.e., packaged) stores
Soft drink (i.e., bottled) stores
Dairy product stores
Spice stores
Gourmet food stores
Water (i.e., bottled) stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing specialty foods via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Selling snack foods (e.g., doughnuts, bagels, ice cream, popcorn) for immediate consumption--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars;
      Retailing fresh, frozen, or cured meats and poultry--are classified in Industry 445210, Meat Markets;
      Retailing fresh, frozen, or cured fish and seafood products--are classified in Industry 445220, Fish and
          Seafood Markets;
      Retailing fresh fruits and vegetables--are classified in Industry 445230, Fruit and Vegetable Markets;
      Retailing candy and other confections, nuts, and popcorn not for immediate consumption and not made on
          the premises--are classified in U.S. Industry 445292, Confectionery and Nut Stores; and
      Retailing baked goods not for immediate consumption and not made on the premises--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 445291, Baked Goods Stores.

4453      Beer, Wine, and Liquor Stores

44531    Beer, Wine, and Liquor Stores
         See industry description for 445310 below.

445310 Beer, Wine, and Liquor Stores

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing packaged alcoholic beverages, such as ale,
beer, wine, and liquor.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in retailing packaged liquor in combination with providing prepared drinks for
immediate consumption on the premises are classified in Industry 722410, Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages).

446      Health and Personal Care Stores

 Industries in the Health and Personal Care Stores subsector retail health and personal care merchandise from fixed
point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector are characterized principally by the products they retail, and
some health and personal care stores may have specialized staff trained in dealing with the products. Staff may
include pharmacists, opticians, and other professionals engaged in retailing, advising customers, and/or fitting the
product sold to the customer's needs.

4461     Health and Personal Care Stores

 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing health and personal care products.

44611    Pharmacies and Drug Stores
         See industry description for 446110 below.

446110 Pharmacies and Drug Stores

 This industry comprises establishments known as pharmacies and drug stores engaged in retailing prescription or
nonprescription drugs and medicines.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing food supplement products, such as vitamins, nutrition supplements, and body enhancing
         supplements--are classified in U.S. Industry 446191, Food (Health) Supplement Stores; and
     Retailing prescription and nonprescription drugs via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--
         are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers.

44612    Cosmetics, Beauty Supplies, and Perfume Stores
         See industry description for 446120 below.

446120 Cosmetics, Beauty Supplies, and Perfume Stores

 This industry comprises establishments known as cosmetic or perfume stores or beauty supply shops primarily
engaged in retailing cosmetics, perfumes, toiletries, and personal grooming products.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Providing beauty parlor services--are classified in U.S. Industry 812112, Beauty Salons; and
     Retailing perfumes, cosmetics, and beauty supplies via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct
         sale--are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers.

44613    Optical Goods Stores
         See industry description for 446130 below.

446130 Optical Goods Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) retailing and fitting
prescription eyeglasses and contact lenses; (2) retailing prescription eyeglasses in combination with the grinding of
lenses to order on the premises; and (3) selling nonprescription eyeglasses.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Grinding lenses without retailing lenses--are classified in U.S. Industry 339115, Ophthalmic Goods
          Manufacturing;
      The private or group practice of optometry, even though glasses and contact lenses are sold at these
          establishments--are classified in Industry 621320, Offices of Optometrists;
      Retailing eyeglasses and contact lenses via mail-order--are classified in U.S. Industry 454113, Mail-Order
          Houses; and
      Retailing eyeglasses and contact lenses via the Internet--are classified in U.S. Industry 454111, Electronic
          Shopping.

44619     Other Health and Personal Care Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing health and personal care items (except
drugs, medicines, optical goods, perfumes, cosmetics, and beauty supplies).

Illustrative Examples:

Convalescent supply stores
Prosthetic stores
Food (i.e., health) supplement stores
Sick room supply stores
Hearing aid stores

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing health and personal care items via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing orthopedic shoes--are classified in Industry 44821, Shoe Stores;
      Retailing orthopedic and prosthetic appliances that are made on premises--are classified in Industry 33911,
          Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing;
      Retailing prescription and nonprescription drugs and medicines--are classified in Industry 44611,
          Pharmacies and Drug Stores;
      Retailing eyeglasses and contact lenses--are classified in Industry 44613, Optical Goods Stores;
      Retailing perfumes, cosmetics, and beauty supplies--are classified in Industry 44612, Cosmetics, Beauty
          Supplies, and Perfume Stores; and
      Retailing naturally organic foods, such as fruits and vegetables, dairy products, and cereals and grains--are
          classified in Subsector 445, Food and Beverage Stores.

446191 Food (Health) Supplement Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing food supplement products, such as
vitamins, nutrition supplements, and body enhancing supplements.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing food supplement products via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified
          in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;

      Retailing prescription and nonprescription drugs and medicines--are classified in Industry 446110,
          Pharmacies and Drug Stores; and
      Retailing naturally organic foods, such as fruits and vegetables, dairy products, and cereals and grains--are
          classified in Subsector 445, Food and Beverage Stores.

446199 All Other Health and Personal Care Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing specialized lines of health and personal
care merchandise (except drugs, medicines, optical goods, cosmetics, beauty supplies, perfume, and food
supplement products).

Illustrative Examples:

Convalescent supply stores
Prosthetic stores
Hearing aid stores
Sick room supply stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing specialized health and personal care merchandise via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or
          direct sale--are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing food supplement products--are classified in U.S. Industry 446191, Food (Health) Supplement
          Stores;
      Retailing prescription or nonprescription drugs and medicines--are classified in Industry 446110,
          Pharmacies and Drug Stores;
      Retailing eyeglasses and contact lenses--are classified in Industry 446130, Optical Goods Stores;
      Retailing perfumes, cosmetics, and beauty supplies--are classified in Industry 446120, Cosmetics, Beauty
          Supplies, and Perfume Stores;
      Retailing orthopedic shoes--are classified in Industry 448210, Shoe Stores; and
      Retailing orthopedic and prosthetic appliances that are made on premises--are classified in U.S. Industry
          339113, Surgical Appliance and Supplies Manufacturing.

447       Gasoline Stations

  Industries in the Gasoline Stations subsector retail automotive fuels (e.g., gasoline, diesel fuel, gasohol, alternative
fuels) and automotive oils or retail these products in combination with convenience store items. These
establishments have specialized equipment for the storage and dispensing of automotive fuels.

4471      Gasoline Stations

44711     Gasoline Stations with Convenience Stores
          See industry description for 447110 below.

447110 Gasoline Stations with Convenience Stores

  This industry comprises establishments engaged in retailing automotive fuels (e.g., diesel fuel, gasohol, gasoline)
in combination with convenience store or food mart items. These establishments can either be in a convenience
store (i.e., food mart) setting or a gasoline station setting. These establishments may also provide automotive repair
services.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing automotive fuels without a convenience store--are classified in Industry 447190, Other Gasoline
          Stations; and

      Retailing a limited line of goods, known as convenience stores or food marts (except those with fuel
          pumps)--are classified in Industry 445120, Convenience Stores.

44719     Other Gasoline Stations
          See industry description for 447190 below.

447190 Other Gasoline Stations

  This industry comprises establishments known as gasoline stations (except those with convenience stores)
primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) retailing automotive fuels (e.g., diesel fuel, gasohol, gasoline,
alternative fuels) or (2) retailing these fuels in combination with activities, such as providing repair services; selling
automotive oils, replacement parts, and accessories; and/or providing food services.

Illustrative Examples:

Gasoline stations without convenience stores
Truck stops
Marine service stations

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Repairing motor vehicles without retailing automotive fuels--are classified in Industry Group 8111,
          Automotive Repair and Maintenance; and
      Retailing automotive fuels in combination with a convenience store or food mart--are classified in Industry
          447110, Gasoline Stations with Convenience Stores.

448       Clothing and Clothing Accessories Stores

  Industries in the Clothing and Clothing Accessories Stores subsector retail new clothing and clothing accessories
merchandise from fixed point-of-sale locations. Establishments in this subsector have similar display equipment and
staff that is knowledgeable regarding fashion trends and the proper match of styles, colors, and combinations of
clothing and accessories to the characteristics and tastes of the customer.

4481      Clothing Stores

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new clothing.

44811     Men's Clothing Stores
          See industry description for 448110 below.

448110 Men's Clothing Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new men's and boys'
clothing. These establishments may provide basic alterations, such as hemming, taking in or letting out seams, or
lengthening or shortening sleeves.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing men's and boys' clothing via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing custom men's clothing made on the premises--are classified in Industry Group 3152, Cut and Sew
          Apparel Manufacturing;
      Retailing new men's and boys' accessories--are classified in Industry 448150, Clothing Accessories Stores;
      Retailing specialized new apparel, such as raincoats, leather coats, fur apparel, and swimwear--are
          classified in Industry 448190, Other Clothing Stores;

     Retailing new clothing for all genders and age groups--are classified in Industry 448140, Family Clothing
         Stores;
     Retailing secondhand clothes--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores; and
     Providing clothing alterations and repair--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household
         Goods Repair and Maintenance.

44812    Women's Clothing Stores
         See industry description for 448120 below.

448120 Women's Clothing Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new women's, misses' and
juniors' clothing, including maternity wear. These establishments may provide basic alterations, such as hemming,
taking in or letting out seams, or lengthening or shortening sleeves.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing women's clothing via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
         Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
     Retailing custom women's clothing made on premises--are classified in Industry Group 3152, Cut and Sew
         Apparel Manufacturing;
     Retailing new women's accessories--are classified in Industry 448150, Clothing Accessories Stores;
     Retailing new clothing for all genders and age groups--are classified in Industry 448140, Family Clothing
         Stores;
     Retailing specialized new apparel, such as bridal gowns, raincoats, leather coats, fur apparel, and
         swimwear--are classified in Industry 448190, Other Clothing Stores;
     Retailing secondhand clothes--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores; and
     Providing clothing alterations and repair--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household
         Goods Repair and Maintenance.

44813    Children's and Infants' Clothing Stores
         See industry description for 448130 below.

448130 Children's and Infants' Clothing Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new children's and infants'
clothing. These establishments may provide basic alterations, such as hemming, taking in or letting out seams, or
lengthening or shortening sleeves.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing children's and infants' clothing via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
         classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
     Retailing new children's and infants' accessories--are classified in Industry 448150, Clothing Accessories
         Stores;
     Retailing new clothing for all genders or age groups--are classified in Industry 448140, Family Clothing
         Stores;
     Retailing secondhand clothes--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores; and
     Providing clothing alterations and repair--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household
         Goods Repair and Maintenance.

44814    Family Clothing Stores
         See industry description for 448140 below.

448140 Family Clothing Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new clothing for men,
women, and children, without specializing in sales for an individual gender or age group. These establishments may
provide basic alterations, such as hemming, taking in or letting out seams, or lengthening or shortening sleeves.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing clothing for all genders via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing new men's and boys' clothing--are classified in Industry 448110, Men's Clothing Stores;
      Retailing new women's, misses', and juniors' clothing--are classified in Industry 448120, Women's Clothing
          Stores;
      Retailing new children's and infants' clothing--are classified in Industry 448130, Children's and Infants'
          Clothing Stores;
      Retailing specialized new apparel, such as raincoats, bridal gowns, leather coats, fur apparel, and
          swimwear--are classified in Industry 448190, Other Clothing Stores;
      Providing clothing alterations and repair--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household
          Goods Repair and Maintenance; and
      Retailing secondhand clothes--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

44815     Clothing Accessories Stores
          See industry description for 448150 below.

448150 Clothing Accessories Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing single or combination lines of new clothing
accessories, such as hats and caps, costume jewelry, gloves, handbags, ties, wigs, toupees, and belts.

Illustrative Examples:

Costume jewelry stores
Wig and hairpiece stores
Neckwear stores

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing specialized lines of clothing via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing precious jewelry and watches--are classified in Industry 448310, Jewelry Stores;
      Retailing used clothing accessories--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores;
      Retailing luggage, briefcases, trunks, or these products in combination with a general line of leather items
          (except leather apparel), known as luggage and leather goods stores--are classified in Industry 448320,
          Luggage and Leather Goods Stores; and
      Retailing leather apparel--are classified in Industry 448190, Other Clothing Stores.

44819     Other Clothing Stores
          See industry description for 448190 below.

448190 Other Clothing Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing specialized lines of new clothing (except
general lines of men's, women's, children's, infants', and family clothing). These establishments may provide basic
alterations, such as hemming, taking in or letting out seams, or lengthening or shortening sleeves.

Illustrative Examples:

Bridal gown (except custom) shops
Leather coat stores
Costume shops
Lingerie stores
Fur apparel stores
Swimwear stores
Hosiery stores
Uniform (except athletic) stores

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing specialized apparel via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
        Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
     Retailing custom apparel and accessories made on the premises--are classified in Subsector 315, Apparel
        Manufacturing;
     Retailing new men's and boys' clothing--are classified in Industry 448110, Men's Clothing Stores;
     Retailing new women's, misses', and juniors' clothing, including maternity wear--are classified in Industry
        448120, Women's Clothing Stores;
     Retailing new children's and infants' clothing--are classified in Industry 448130, Children's and Infants'
        Clothing Stores;
     Retailing new clothing for all genders or age groups--are classified in Industry 448140, Family Clothing
        Stores;
     Retailing athletic uniforms--are classified in Industry 451110, Sporting Goods Stores;
     Retailing secondhand clothes--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores;
     Retailing luggage, briefcases, trunks, or these products in combination with a general line of leather items
        (except leather apparel), known as luggage and leather goods stores--are classified in Industry 448320,
        Luggage and Leather Goods Stores; and
     Providing clothing alterations and repair--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household
        Goods Repair and Maintenance.

4482    Shoe Stores

44821   Shoe Stores
        See industry description for 448210 below.

448210 Shoe Stores

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing all types of new footwear (except hosiery
and specialty sports footwear, such as golf shoes, bowling shoes, and spiked shoes). Establishments primarily
engaged in retailing new tennis shoes or sneakers are included in this industry.

Cross-References.         Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing footwear via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in Subsector 454,
        Nonstore Retailers;
     Retailing hosiery--are classified in Industry 448190, Other Clothing Stores;
     Retailing new specialty sports footwear (e.g., bowling shoes, golf shoes, spiked shoes)--are classified in
        Industry 451110, Sporting Goods Stores; and
     Retailing used footwear--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

4483    Jewelry, Luggage, and Leather Goods Stores

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new jewelry (except costume
jewelry); new sterling and plated silverware; new watches and clocks; and new luggage with or without a general
line of new leather goods and accessories, such as hats, gloves, handbags, ties, and belts.

44831    Jewelry Stores
         See industry description for 448310 below.

448310 Jewelry Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing one or more of the following items: (1) new
jewelry (except costume jewelry); (2) new sterling and plated silverware; and (3) new watches and clocks. Also
included are establishments retailing these new products in combination with lapidary work and/or repair services.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing new costume jewelry--are classified in Industry 448150, Clothing Accessories Stores;
      Retailing jewelry via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in Subsector 454,
         Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing antiques or used jewelry, silverware, and watches and clocks--are classified in Industry 453310,
         Used Merchandise Stores;
      Providing jewelry or watch and clock repair without retailing new jewelry or watches and clocks--are
         classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance; and
      Cutting and setting gem stones--are classified in Industry 339910, Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing.

44832    Luggage and Leather Goods Stores
         See industry description for 448320 below.

448320 Luggage and Leather Goods Stores

  This industry comprises establishments known as luggage and leather goods stores primarily engaged in retailing
new luggage, briefcases, and trunks, or retailing these new products in combination with a general line of leather
items (except leather apparel), such as belts, gloves, and handbags.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing luggage and leather goods via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified
         in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing used luggage and leather goods--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores;
      Retailing single or combination lines of new clothing accessories (e.g., gloves, handbags, or leather belts)--
         are classified in Industry 448150, Clothing Accessories Stores; and
      Retailing new leather coats--are classified in Industry 448190, Other Clothing Stores.

451      Sporting Goods, Hobby, Musical Instrument, and Book Stores

  Industries in the Sporting Goods, Hobby, Musical Instrument, and Book Stores subsector are engaged in retailing
and providing expertise on the use of sporting equipment or other specific leisure activities, such as needlework and
musical instruments. Book stores are also included in this subsector.

4511     Sporting Goods, Hobby, and Musical Instrument Stores

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new sporting goods, games and toys,
and musical instruments.

45111    Sporting Goods Stores
         See industry description for 451110 below.

451110 Sporting Goods Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new sporting goods, such as bicycles and
bicycle parts; camping equipment; exercise and fitness equipment; athletic uniforms; specialty sports footwear; and
sporting goods, equipment, and accessories.

Illustrative Examples:

Athletic uniform supply stores
Fishing supply stores
Bicycle (except motorized) shops
Golf pro shops
Bowling equipment and supply stores
Saddlery stores
Diving equipment stores
Sporting goods (e.g., scuba, skiing, outdoor) stores
Exercise equipment stores
Sporting gun shops

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing sporting goods via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing new or used campers (pickup coaches) and camping trailers--are classified in Industry 441210,
          Recreational Vehicle Dealers;
      Retailing new or used snowmobiles, motorized bicycles, and motorized golf carts--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 441228, Motorcycle, ATV, and All Other Motor Vehicle Dealers;
      Retailing new shoes (except specialty sports footwear, such as golf shoes, bowling shoes, and spiked
          shoes)--are classified in Industry 448210, Shoe Stores;
      Repairing or servicing sporting goods, without retailing new sporting goods--are classified in Industry
          811490, Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance; and
      Retailing used sporting goods and used bicycles--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise
          Stores.

45112     Hobby, Toy, and Game Stores
          See industry description for 451120 below.

451120 Hobby, Toy, and Game Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new toys, games, and hobby and craft
supplies (except needlecraft).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing toys, games, and hobby and craft supplies via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct
          sale--are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing artists' supplies or collectors' items, such as coins, stamps, autographs, and cards--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 453998, All Other Miscellaneous Store Retailers (except Tobacco Stores);
      Retailing new computer software (e.g., game software)--are classified in U.S. Industry 443142, Electronics
          Stores;
      Retailing used toys, games, and hobby supplies--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise
          Stores; and
      Retailing new sewing supplies, fabrics, and needlework accessories--are classified in Industry 451130,
          Sewing, Needlework, and Piece Goods Stores.

45113     Sewing, Needlework, and Piece Goods Stores
          See industry description for 451130 below.

451130 Sewing, Needlework, and Piece Goods Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new sewing supplies, fabrics, patterns,
yarns, and other needlework accessories or retailing these products in combination with selling new sewing
machines.

Illustrative Examples:

Fabric shops
Sewing supply stores
Needlecraft sewing supply stores
Upholstery materials stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing sewing supplies via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing new sewing machines only and in combination with retailing other new appliances--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 443141, Household Appliance Stores; and
      Retailing used sewing, needlework, and piece goods--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise
          Stores.

45114     Musical Instrument and Supplies Stores
          See industry description for 451140 below.

451140 Musical Instrument and Supplies Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new musical instruments, sheet music, and
related supplies; or retailing these new products in combination with musical instrument repair, rental, or music
instruction.

Illustrative Examples:

Musical instrument stores
Sheet music stores
Piano stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing musical instruments, sheet music, and related supplies via electronic home shopping, mail-order,
          or direct sale--are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing new musical recordings--are classified in U.S. Industry 443142, Electronics Stores; and
      Retailing used musical instruments (including used rare musical instruments), sheet music, and related
          supplies--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

4512      Book Stores and News Dealers

45121     Book Stores and News Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new books, newspapers, magazines, and
other periodicals.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing newspapers, magazines, and other periodicals via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct
         sale--are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Home delivery of newspapers--are classified in Industry 45439, Other Direct Selling Establishments; and
      Retailing used books, newspapers, magazines, and other periodicals--are classified in Industry 45331, Used
         Merchandise Stores.

451211 Book Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new books.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing books via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in Subsector 454,
         Nonstore Retailers; and
      Retailing used books (including used rare books)--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise
         Stores.

451212 News Dealers and Newsstands

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing current newspapers, magazines, and
other periodicals.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Home delivery of newspapers--are classified in Industry 454390, Other Direct Selling Establishments;
      Retailing newspapers and periodicals by mail-order--are classified in U.S. Industry 454113, Mail-Order
         Houses; and
      Retailing used newspapers, magazines, and other periodicals--are classified in Industry 453310, Used
         Merchandise Stores.

452      General Merchandise Stores

  Industries in the General Merchandise Stores subsector retail new general merchandise from fixed point-of-sale
locations. Establishments in this subsector are unique in that they have the equipment and staff capable of retailing
a large variety of goods from a single location. This includes a variety of display equipment and staff trained to
provide information on many lines of products.

4521     Department Stores

45211    Department Stores

  This industry comprises establishments known as department stores primarily engaged in retailing a wide range of
the following new products with no one merchandise line predominating: apparel, furniture, appliances and home
furnishings; and selected additional items, such as paint, hardware, toiletries, cosmetics, photographic equipment,
jewelry, toys, and sporting goods. Merchandise lines are normally arranged in separate departments.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing packaged grocery items in combination with general lines of merchandise with no one
         merchandise line predominating--are classified in Industry 45291, Warehouse Clubs and Supercenters;
      Retailing apparel without a significant amount of housewares or general merchandise--are classified in
         Subsector 448, Clothing and Clothing Accessories Stores;

     Retailing general lines of merchandise via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers; and
     Retailing used merchandise--are classified in Industry 45331, Used Merchandise Stores.

452111 Department Stores (except Discount Department Stores)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as department stores that have separate departments for
various merchandise lines, such as apparel, jewelry, home furnishings, and linens, each with separate cash registers
and sales associates. Department stores in this industry generally do not have central customer checkout and cash
register facilities.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing apparel without a significant amount of housewares or general merchandise--are classified in
          Subsector 448, Clothing and Clothing Accessories Stores;
     Retailing a wide variety of general merchandise in department stores with central customer checkout and
          cash register facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 452112, Discount Department Stores; and
     Retailing a wide variety of general merchandise in combination with a general line of perishable groceries,
          such as fresh meat, vegetable, and dairy products--are classified in Industry 452910, Warehouse Clubs and
          Supercenters.

452112 Discount Department Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as department stores that have central customer checkout
areas, generally in the front of the store, and that may have additional cash registers located in one or more
individual departments. Department stores in this industry sell a wide range of general merchandise (except fresh,
perishable foods).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing apparel without a significant amount of housewares or general merchandise--are classified in
          Subsector 448, Clothing and Clothing Accessories Stores;
     Retailing a wide variety of general merchandise in department stores with separate cash registers and sales
          associates for each department--are classified in U.S. Industry 452111, Department Stores (except Discount
          Department Stores); and
     Retailing a wide variety of general merchandise in combination with a general line of perishable groceries,
          such as fresh meat, vegetable, and dairy products--are classified in Industry 452910, Warehouse Clubs and
          Supercenters.

4529      Other General Merchandise Stores

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new goods in general merchandise
stores (except department stores).

45291     Warehouse Clubs and Supercenters
          See industry description for 452910 below.

452910 Warehouse Clubs and Supercenters

  This industry comprises establishments known as warehouse clubs, superstores or supercenters primarily engaged
in retailing a general line of groceries in combination with general lines of new merchandise, such as apparel,
furniture, and appliances.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing general lines of merchandise via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing a general line of food, generally known as supermarkets and grocery stores--are classified in
          Industry 445110, Supermarkets and Other Grocery (except Convenience) Stores;
      Retailing general lines of new merchandise with little grocery item sales--are classified in Industry 452990,
          All Other General Merchandise Stores;
      Retailing new merchandise in discount department stores--are classified in U.S. Industry 452112, Discount
          Department Stores;
      Retailing new merchandise in department stores other than discount department stores--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 452111, Department Stores (except Discount Department Stores); and
      Retailing used merchandise--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

45299     All Other General Merchandise Stores
          See industry description for 452990 below.

452990 All Other General Merchandise Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new goods in general merchandise stores
(except department stores, discount department stores, warehouse clubs, superstores, and supercenters). These
establishments retail a general line of new merchandise, such as apparel, automotive parts, dry goods, hardware,
groceries, housewares or home furnishings, and other lines in limited amounts, with none of the lines predominating.

Illustrative Examples:

Dollar stores
General stores
General merchandise catalog showrooms (except catalog mail-order)
General merchandise trading posts
Home and auto supply stores
Variety stores

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing general lines of merchandise via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing automotive parts--are classified in Industry 441310, Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores;
      Retailing merchandise in department stores--are classified in Industry 45211, Department Stores;
      Retailing merchandise in warehouse clubs, superstores, or supercenters--are classified in Industry 452910,
          Warehouse Clubs and Supercenters;
      Retailing merchandise in catalog showrooms of mail-order houses--are classified in U.S. Industry 454113,
          Mail-Order Houses;
      Retailing a general line of new hardware items, known as hardware stores--are classified in Industry
          444130, Hardware Stores;
      Retailing a general line of new home repair and improvement materials and supplies, known as home
          centers--are classified in Industry 444110, Home Centers; and
      Retailing used merchandise--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

453       Miscellaneous Store Retailers

  Industries in the Miscellaneous Store Retailers subsector retail merchandise from fixed point-of-sale locations
(except new or used motor vehicles and parts; new furniture and home furnishings; new appliances and electronic
products; new building materials and garden equipment and supplies; food and beverages; health and personal care
goods; gasoline; new clothing and accessories; and new sporting goods, hobby goods, books, and music).
Establishments in this subsector include stores with unique characteristics like florists, used merchandise stores, and
pet and pet supply stores as well as other store retailers.

4531      Florists

45311     Florists
          See industry description for 453110 below.

453110 Florists

  This industry comprises establishments known as florists primarily engaged in retailing cut flowers, floral
arrangements, and potted plants purchased from others. These establishments usually prepare the arrangements they
sell.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing flowers or nursery stock grown on premises--are classified in Industry 11142, Nursery and
          Floriculture Production;
      Retailing trees, shrubs, plants, seeds, bulbs, and sod grown elsewhere--are classified in Industry 444220,
          Nursery, Garden Center, and Farm Supply Stores; and
      Retailing flowers via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in Subsector 454,
          Nonstore Retailers.

4532      Office Supplies, Stationery, and Gift Stores

45321     Office Supplies and Stationery Stores
          See industry description for 453210 below.

453210 Office Supplies and Stationery Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) retailing new
stationery, school supplies, and office supplies; (2) retailing a combination of new office equipment, furniture, and
supplies; and (3) retailing new office equipment, furniture, and supplies in combination with selling new computers.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing stationery, school supplies, and office supplies via electronic shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--
          are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing greeting cards--are classified in Industry 453220, Gift, Novelty, and Souvenir Stores;
      Retailing new typewriters--are classified in U.S. Industry 443142, Electronics Stores;
      Retailing new computers without retailing other consumer-type electronic products or office equipment,
          furniture, and supplies--are classified in U.S. Industry 443142, Electronics Stores;
      Printing business forms--are classified in Industry 32311, Printing;
      Retailing new office furniture--are classified in Industry 442110, Furniture Stores; and
      Retailing used office supplies--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

45322     Gift, Novelty, and Souvenir Stores
          See industry description for 453220 below.

453220 Gift, Novelty, and Souvenir Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new gifts, novelty merchandise, souvenirs,
greeting cards, seasonal and holiday decorations, and curios.

Illustrative Examples:
Balloon shops
Greeting card shops

Christmas stores
Novelty shops
Curio shops
Souvenir shops
Gift shops

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing gifts and novelties via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing stationery--are classified in Industry 453210, Office Supplies and Stationery Stores; and
      Retailing used curios and novelties--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores.

4533      Used Merchandise Stores

45331     Used Merchandise Stores
          See industry description for 453310 below.

453310 Used Merchandise Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing used merchandise, antiques, and secondhand
goods (except motor vehicles, such as automobiles, RVs, motorcycles, and boats; motor vehicle parts; tires; and
mobile homes).

Illustrative Examples:

Antique shops
Used household-type appliance stores
Used book stores
Used merchandise thrift shops
Used clothing stores
Used sporting goods stores

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing used merchandise via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in
          Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Operating pawnshops--are classified in U.S. Industry 522298, All Other Nondepository Credit
          Intermediation;
      Retailing used automobiles--are classified in Industry 441120, Used Car Dealers;
      Retailing used automobile parts (except tires and tubes)--are classified in Industry 441310, Automotive
          Parts and Accessories Stores;
      Retailing used tires--are classified in Industry 441320, Tire Dealers;
      Retailing used mobile homes--are classified in Industry 453930, Manufactured (Mobile) Home Dealers;
      Retailing used recreational vehicles--are classified in Industry 441210, Recreational Vehicle Dealers;
      Retailing used boats--are classified in U.S. Industry 441222, Boat Dealers;
      Retailing used motorcycles, aircraft, snowmobiles, and utility trailers--are classified in U.S. Industry
          441228, Motorcycle, ATV, and All Other Motor Vehicle Dealers; and
      Retailing a general line of used merchandise on an auction basis (except electronic auctions)--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 453998, All Other Miscellaneous Store Retailers (except Tobacco Stores).

4539      Other Miscellaneous Store Retailers

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new miscellaneous specialty store
merchandise (except motor vehicle and parts dealers; furniture and home furnishings stores; consumer-type

electronics and appliance stores; building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers; food and beverage
stores; health and personal care stores; gasoline stations; clothing and clothing accessories stores; sporting goods,
hobby, book, and music stores; general merchandise stores; florists; office supplies, stationery, and gift stores; and
used merchandise stores).

45391    Pet and Pet Supplies Stores
         See industry description for 453910 below.

453910 Pet and Pet Supplies Stores

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing pets, pet foods, and pet supplies.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing pets, pet foods, and pet supplies via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
         classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
     Providing pet grooming and boarding services--are classified in Industry 812910, Pet Care (except
         Veterinary) Services; and
     Providing veterinary services--are classified in Industry 541940, Veterinary Services.

45392    Art Dealers
         See industry description for 453920 below.

453920 Art Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing original and limited edition art works.
Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in displaying works of art for retail sale in art
galleries.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing original and limited edition art works via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
         classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
     Retailing art reproductions (except limited editions)--are classified in U.S. Industry 442299, All Other
         Home Furnishings Stores;
     Retailing artists' supplies--are classified in U.S. Industry 453998, All Other Miscellaneous Store Retailers
         (except Tobacco Stores); and
     Displaying works of art not for retail sale in art galleries--are classified in Industry 712110, Museums.

45393    Manufactured (Mobile) Home Dealers
         See industry description for 453930 below.

453930 Manufactured (Mobile) Home Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing new and/or used manufactured homes (i.e.,
mobile homes), parts, and equipment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Retailing new or used motor homes, campers, and travel trailers--are classified in Industry 441210,
         Recreational Vehicle Dealers; and
     Retailing prefabricated buildings and kits without construction--are classified in Industry 444190, Other
         Building Material Dealers.

45399    All Other Miscellaneous Store Retailers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing specialized lines of merchandise (except
motor vehicle and parts dealers; furniture and home furnishings stores; electronics and appliance stores; building
material and garden equipment and supplies dealers; food and beverage stores; health and personal care stores;
gasoline stations; clothing and clothing accessories stores; sporting goods, hobby, book, and music stores; general
merchandise stores; florists; office supplies, stationery and gift stores; used merchandise stores; pet and pet supplies
stores; art dealers; and manufactured home (i.e., mobile home) dealers). This industry also includes establishments
primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new and used merchandise on an auction basis (except electronic
auctions).

Illustrative Examples:

Art supply stores
Swimming pool supply stores, new
Cemetery memorial (e.g., markers, headstones, vaults) dealers
Tobacco stores
Cigar stores

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing merchandise via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are classified in Subsector
          454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Auctioning on the location of others as independent auctioneers--are classified in Industry 56199, All Other
          Support Services;
      Retailing pets and pet supplies--are classified in Industry 45391, Pet and Pet Supplies Stores;
      Retailing original and limited edition art works--are classified in Industry 45392, Art Dealers;
      Retailing manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes)--are classified in Industry 45393, Manufactured
          (Mobile) Home Dealers;
      Retailing new books--are classified in Industry 45121, Book Stores and News Dealers;
      Retailing new jewelry (except costume jewelry)--are classified in Industry 44831, Jewelry Stores;
      Retailing new costume jewelry--are classified in Industry 44815, Clothing Accessories Stores;
      Operating pawnshops--are classified in Industry 52229, Other Nondepository Credit Intermediation; and
      Retailing used merchandise (except automobiles, RVs, mobile homes, motorcycles, boats, motor vehicle
          parts, tires, aircraft, snowmobiles, and utility trailers)--are classified in Industry 45331, Used Merchandise
          Stores.

453991 Tobacco Stores

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, pipes, and
other smokers' supplies.

Illustrative Examples:

Cigar stores
Smokers' supply stores
Cigarette stands (i.e., permanent)
Tobacco stores

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in retailing tobacco products and supplies via electronic home shopping, mail-
order, or direct sale are classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers.

453998 All Other Miscellaneous Store Retailers (except Tobacco Stores)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing specialized lines of merchandise
(except motor vehicle and parts dealers; furniture and home furnishings stores; electronics and appliance stores;
building material and garden equipment and supplies dealers; food and beverage stores; health and personal care
stores; gasoline stations; clothing and clothing accessories stores; sporting goods, hobby, book and music stores;
general merchandise stores; florists; office supplies, stationery and gift stores; used merchandise stores; pet and pet
supplies stores; art dealers; manufactured home (i.e., mobile home) dealers; and tobacco stores). This industry also
includes establishments primarily engaged in retailing a general line of new and used merchandise on an auction
basis (except electronic auctions).

Illustrative Examples:

Art supply stores
General merchandise auction houses
Candle shops
Home security equipment stores
Cemetery memorial (e.g., headstones, markers, vaults) dealers
Hot tub stores
Collectors' items (e.g., autograph, coin, card, stamp) shops
Swimming pool supply stores
Fireworks shops (permanent location)
Trophy (e.g., awards and plaques) shops
Flower shops, artificial or dried

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing specialized lines of merchandise via electronic home shopping, mail-order, or direct sale--are
          classified in Subsector 454, Nonstore Retailers;
      Retailing merchandise via electronic auctions--are classified in U.S. Industry 454112, Electronic Auctions;
      Auctioning (i.e., on the location of others as independent auctioneers)--are classified in Industry 561990,
          All Other Support Services;
      Retailing pets and pet supplies--are classified in Industry 453910, Pet and Pet Supplies Stores;
      Retailing original and limited edition art works--are classified in Industry 453920, Art Dealers;
      Retailing manufactured homes (i.e., mobile homes)--are classified in Industry 453930, Manufactured
          (Mobile) Home Dealers;
      Retailing cigarettes, cigars, tobacco, pipes, and other smokers' supplies--are classified in U.S. Industry
          453991, Tobacco Stores;
      Retailing antiques--are classified in Industry 453310, Used Merchandise Stores;
      Retailing new books--are classified in U.S. Industry 451211, Book Stores;
      Retailing new jewelry (except costume jewelry)--are classified in Industry 448310, Jewelry Stores; and
      Retailing new costume jewelry--are classified in Industry 448150, Clothing Accessories Stores.

454       Nonstore Retailers

  Industries in the Nonstore Retailers subsector retail merchandise using methods, such as the broadcasting of
infomercials, the broadcasting and publishing of direct-response advertising, the publishing of paper and electronic
catalogs, door-to-door solicitation, in-home demonstration, selling from portable stalls and distribution through
vending machines. Establishments in this subsector include mail-order houses, vending machine operators, home
delivery sales, door-to-door sales, party plan sales, electronic shopping, and sales through portable stalls (e.g., street
vendors, except food). Establishments engaged in the direct sale (i.e., nonstore) of products, such as home heating
oil dealers and newspaper delivery service providers are included in this subsector.

4541      Electronic Shopping and Mail-Order Houses

45411     Electronic Shopping and Mail-Order Houses

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing all types of merchandise using nonstore
means, such as catalogs, toll free telephone numbers, or electronic media, such as interactive television or computer.
Included in this industry are establishments primarily engaged in retailing from catalog showrooms of mail-order
houses.

Illustrative Examples:

Catalog (i.e., order-taking) offices of mail-order houses
Internet auction sites, retail
Collectors' items, mail-order houses
Mail-order book clubs (not publishing)
Computer software, mail-order houses
Mail-order houses
Home shopping television orders
Web retailers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Store retailing or a combination of store retailing and nonstore retailing in the same establishment--are
          classified in Sector 44-45, Retail Trade, based on the classification of the store portion of the activity;
      Facilitating business to business electronic sales of new and used merchandise on an auction basis using the
          Internet--are classified in Industry 42511, Business to Business Electronic Markets;
      Providing telemarketing (e.g., telephone marketing) services for others--are classified in Industry 56142,
          Telephone Call Centers;
      Providing Internet publishing of classified ads--are classified in Industry 51913, Internet Publishing and
          Broadcasting and Web Search Portals; and
      Hosting Internet retail sites without performing associated activities such as payment processing or
          fulfillment--are classified in Industry 51821, Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services.

454111 Electronic Shopping

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments engaged in retailing all types of merchandise using the Internet.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Store retailing or a combination of store retailing and Internet retailing in the same establishment--are
          classified in Sector 44-45, Retail Trade, based on the classification of the store portion of the activity;
      Retailing all types of merchandise using catalogs or television to generate clients and display merchandise--
          are classified in U.S. Industry 454113, Mail-Order Houses; and
      Providing sites for and facilitating consumer-to-consumer or business-to-consumer trade in new and used
          goods, on an auction basis, using the Internet--are classified in U.S. Industry 454112, Electronic Auctions.

454112 Electronic Auctions

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments engaged in providing sites for and facilitating consumer-to-consumer
or business-to-consumer trade in new and used goods, on an auction basis, using the Internet. Establishments in this
industry provide the electronic location for retail auctions, but do not take title to the goods being sold.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Retailing a general line of new and used merchandise on an auction basis from physical auction sites--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 453998, All Other Miscellaneous Store Retailers (except Tobacco Stores);
      Facilitating business to business sales of new and used merchandise on an auction basis using the Internet--
          are classified in Industry 425110, Business to Business Electronic Markets;

      A combination of Internet auction and auction house sales in the same establishment--are classified in
          Sector 44-45, Retail Trade, based on the classification of the auction house portion of the activity;
      Providing Internet publishing of classified ads--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet Publishing and
          Broadcasting and Web Search Portals; and
      Hosting Internet retail sites without performing associated activities such as payment processing or
          fulfillment--are classified in Industry 518210, Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services.

454113 Mail-Order Houses

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing all types of merchandise using mail
catalogs or television to generate clients and display merchandise. Included in this industry are establishments
primarily engaged in retailing from catalog showrooms of mail-order houses as well as establishments providing a
combination of Internet and mail-order sales.

Illustrative Examples:

Catalog (i.e., order-taking) offices of mail-order houses
Home shopping television orders
Collectors' items, mail-order houses
Mail-order book clubs (not publishing)
Computer software, mail-order houses
Mail-order houses

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing telemarketing (e.g., telephone marketing) services for others--are classified in U.S. Industry
          561422, Telemarketing Bureaus and Other Contact Centers; and
      Retailing merchandise using store and nonstore methods at the same establishment--are classified in Sector
          44-45, Retail Trade, based on the classification of the store portion of the activity.

4542      Vending Machine Operators

45421     Vending Machine Operators
          See industry description for 454210 below.

454210 Vending Machine Operators

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing merchandise through vending machines that
they service.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Selling insurance policies through vending machines--are classified in Subsector 524, Insurance Carriers
          and Related Activities;
      Supplying and servicing coin-operated photobooths, restrooms, and lockers--are classified in Industry
          812990, All Other Personal Services; and
      Supplying and servicing coin-operated amusement and gambling devices in places of business operated by
          others--are classified in Subsector 713, Amusement, Gambling, and Recreation Industries.

4543      Direct Selling Establishments

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in nonstore retailing (except electronic, mail-
order, or vending machine sales). These establishments typically go to the customers' location rather than the
customer coming to them (e.g., door-to-door sales, home parties). Examples of establishments in this industry are
home delivery newspaper routes; home delivery of heating oil, liquefied petroleum (LP) gas, and other fuels; locker

meat provisioners; frozen food and freezer meal plan providers; coffee-break service providers; and bottled water or
water softener services.

45431     Fuel Dealers
          See industry description for 454310 below.

454310 Fuel Dealers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing heating oil, liquefied petroleum (LP) gas,
and other fuels via direct selling.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing oil burner repair services--are classified in U.S. Industry 811411, Home and Garden Equipment
          Repair and Maintenance; and
      Installing oil burners--are classified in Industry 238220, Plumbing, Heating, and Air-Conditioning
          Contractors.

45439     Other Direct Selling Establishments
          See industry description for 454390 below.

454390 Other Direct Selling Establishments

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in retailing merchandise (except food for immediate
consumption and fuel) via direct sale to the customer by means, such as in-house sales (i.e., party plan
merchandising), truck or wagon sales, and portable stalls (i.e., street vendors).

Illustrative Examples:

Direct selling bottled water providers
Direct selling home delivery newspaper routes
Direct selling coffee-break service providers
Direct selling locker meat provisioners
Direct selling frozen food and freezer meal plan providers
Direct selling party plan merchandisers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Preparing and selling meals and snacks for immediate consumption from motorized vehicles or
          nonmotorized carts, catering a route--are classified in Industry 722330, Mobile Food Services; and
      Retailing heating oil, liquefied petroleum (LP) gas, and other fuels via direct sale--are classified in Industry
          454310, Fuel Dealers.

                         Sector 48-49--Transportation and Warehousing                              T


                                                The Sector as a Whole

  The Transportation and Warehousing sector includes industries providing transportation of passengers and cargo,
warehousing and storage for goods, scenic and sightseeing transportation, and support activities related to modes of
transportation. Establishments in these industries use transportation equipment or transportation related facilities as
a productive asset. The type of equipment depends on the mode of transportation. The modes of transportation are
air, rail, water, road, and pipeline.
  The Transportation and Warehousing sector distinguishes three basic types of activities: subsectors for each mode
of transportation, a subsector for warehousing and storage, and a subsector for establishments providing support
activities for transportation. In addition, there are subsectors for establishments that provide passenger
transportation for scenic and sightseeing purposes, postal services, and courier services.
  A separate subsector for support activities is established in the sector because, first, support activities for
transportation are inherently multimodal, such as freight transportation arrangement, or have multimodal aspects.
Secondly, there are production process similarities among the support activity industries.
  One of the support activities identified in the support activity subsector is the routine repair and maintenance of
transportation equipment (e.g., aircraft at an airport, railroad rolling stock at a railroad terminal, or ships at a harbor
or port facility). Such establishments do not perform complete overhauling or rebuilding of transportation
equipment (i.e., periodic restoration of transportation equipment to original design specifications) or transportation
equipment conversion (i.e., major modification to systems). An establishment that primarily performs factory (or
shipyard) overhauls, rebuilding, or conversions of aircraft, railroad rolling stock, or a ship is classified in Subsector
336, Transportation Equipment Manufacturing according to the type of equipment.
  Many of the establishments in this sector often operate on networks, with physical facilities, labor forces, and
equipment spread over an extensive geographic area.
  Warehousing establishments in this sector are distinguished from merchant wholesaling in that the warehouse
establishments do not sell the goods.
  Excluded from this sector are establishments primarily engaged in providing travel agent services that support
transportation and other establishments, such as hotels, businesses, and government agencies. These establishments
are classified in Sector 56, Administrative and Support and Waste Management and Remediation Services. Also,
establishments primarily engaged in providing rental and leasing of transportation equipment without operator are
classified in Subsector 532, Rental and Leasing Services.

481        Air Transportation   T



  Industries in the Air Transportation subsector provide air transportation of passengers and/or cargo using aircraft,
such as airplanes and helicopters. The subsector distinguishes scheduled from nonscheduled air transportation.
Scheduled air carriers fly regular routes on regular schedules and operate even if flights are only partially loaded.
Nonscheduled carriers often operate during nonpeak time slots at busy airports. These establishments have more
flexibility with respect to choice of airport, hours of operation, load factors, and similar operational characteristics.
Nonscheduled carriers provide chartered air transportation of passengers, cargo, or specialty flying services.
Specialty flying services establishments use general-purpose aircraft to provide a variety of specialized flying
services.
  Scenic and sightseeing air transportation and air courier services are not included in this subsector but are included
in Subsector 487, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation and in Subsector 492, Couriers and Messengers. Although
these activities may use aircraft, they are different from the activities included in air transportation. Air sightseeing
does not usually involve place-to-place transportation; the passenger's flight (e.g., balloon ride, aerial sightseeing)
typically starts and ends at the same location. Courier services (individual package or cargo delivery) include more
than air transportation; road transportation is usually required to deliver the cargo to the intended recipient.

4811       Scheduled Air Transportation     T



48111      Scheduled Air Transportation     T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air transportation of passengers and/or
cargo over regular routes and on regular schedules. Establishments in this industry operate flights even if partially
loaded. Establishments primarily engaged in providing scheduled air transportation of mail on a contract basis are
included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Air commuter carriers, scheduled
Scheduled air passenger carriers
Scheduled air cargo carriers (except air couriers)
Scheduled helicopter passenger carriers

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing air courier services--are classified in Industry 49211, Couriers and Express Delivery Services;
         Providing air transportation of passengers, cargo, or specialty flying services with no regular routes and
          regular schedules--are classified in Industry 48121, Nonscheduled Air Transportation; and
         Providing helicopter rides for scenic and sightseeing transportation--are classified in Industry 48799,
          Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Other.

481111 Scheduled Passenger Air Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air transportation of passengers or
passengers and freight over regular routes and on regular schedules. Establishments in this industry operate flights
even if partially loaded. Scheduled air passenger carriers including commuter and helicopter carriers (except scenic
and sightseeing) are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing air transportation of passengers or passengers and cargo with no regular routes and regular
          schedules--are classified in U.S. Industry 481211, Nonscheduled Chartered Passenger Air Transportation;
         Providing helicopter rides for scenic and sightseeing transportation--are classified in Industry 487990,
          Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Other; and
         Providing air transportation of cargo (without transporting passengers) over regular routes and on regular
          schedules--are classified in U.S. Industry 481112, Scheduled Freight Air Transportation.

481112 Scheduled Freight Air Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air transportation of cargo without
transporting passengers over regular routes and on regular schedules. Establishments in this industry operate flights
even if partially loaded. Establishments primarily engaged in providing scheduled air transportation of mail on a
contract basis are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing air courier services--are classified in Industry 492110, Couriers and Express Delivery Services;
         Providing air transportation of cargo with no regular routes and regular schedules--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 481212, Nonscheduled Chartered Freight Air Transportation; and
         Providing air transportation of passengers or passengers and cargo over regular routes and on regular
          schedules--are classified in U.S. Industry 481111, Scheduled Passenger Air Transportation.

4812      Nonscheduled Air Transportation       T



48121     Nonscheduled Air Transportation       T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) providing air transportation of passengers and/or
cargo with no regular routes and regular schedules or (2) providing specialty flying services with no regular routes
and regular schedules using general purpose aircraft. These establishments have more flexibility with respect to
choice of airports, hours of operation, load factors, and similar operational characteristics.

Illustrative Examples:

Air taxi services
Nonscheduled air freight transportation services
Aircraft charter services
Nonscheduled air passenger transportation services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Crop dusting using specialized aircraft--are classified in Industry 11511, Support Activities for Crop
          Production;
         Fighting forest fires using specialized water bombers--are classified in Industry 11531, Support Activities
          for Forestry;
         Providing air transportation of passengers and/or cargo over regular routes and on regular schedules--are
          classified in Industry 48111, Scheduled Air Transportation;
         Providing specialized air sightseeing services--are classified in Industry 48799, Scenic and Sightseeing
          Transportation, Other;
         Aerial gathering of geophysical data--are classified in Industry 54136, Geophysical Surveying and
          Mapping Services;
         Providing aerial and/or other surveying and mapping services--are classified in Industry 54137, Surveying
          and Mapping (except Geophysical) Services;
         Providing air ambulance services using specialized equipment--are classified in Industry 62191,
          Ambulance Services;
         Operating specialized flying schools, including all training for commercial pilots--are classified in Industry
          61151, Technical and Trade Schools;
         Operating recreation aviation clubs--are classified in Industry 71399, All Other Amusement and Recreation
          Industries;
         Operating advocacy aviation clubs--are classified in Industry 81331, Social Advocacy Organizations; and
         Providing air courier services--are classified in Industry 49211, Couriers and Express Delivery Services.

481211 Nonscheduled Chartered Passenger Air Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air transportation of passengers or
passengers and cargo with no regular routes and regular schedules.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing specialty air transportation or flying services with no regular routes and regular schedules using
          general purpose aircraft--are classified in U.S. Industry 481219, Other Nonscheduled Air Transportation;
         Providing specialized air sightseeing services--are classified in Industry 487990, Scenic and Sightseeing
          Transportation, Other;
         Providing air transportation of passengers or passengers and cargo over regular routes and on regular
          schedules--are classified in U.S. Industry 481111, Scheduled Passenger Air Transportation; and
         Providing air transportation of cargo (without transporting passengers) with no regular routes and
          schedules--are classified in U.S. Industry 481212, Nonscheduled Chartered Freight Air Transportation.

481212 Nonscheduled Chartered Freight Air Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air transportation of cargo without
transporting passengers with no regular routes and regular schedules.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing specialty air transportation or flying services with no regular routes and regular schedules using
          general purpose aircraft--are classified in U.S. Industry 481219, Other Nonscheduled Air Transportation;
         Providing air courier services--are classified in Industry 492110, Couriers and Express Delivery Services;
         Providing air transportation of cargo without transporting passengers over regular routes and on regular
          schedules--are classified in U.S. Industry 481112, Scheduled Freight Air Transportation; and
         Providing air transportation of cargo and passengers with no regular routes and schedules--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 481211, Nonscheduled Chartered Passenger Air Transportation.

481219 Other Nonscheduled Air Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air transportation with no regular
routes and regular schedules (except nonscheduled chartered passenger and/or cargo air transportation). These
establishments provide a variety of specialty air transportation or flying services based on individual customer needs
using general purpose aircraft.

Illustrative Examples:

Aircraft charter services (i.e., general purpose aircraft used for a variety of specialty air and flying services)
Aviation clubs providing a variety of air transportation activities to the general public

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing air transportation of passengers or passengers and cargo with no regular routes and regular
          schedules--are classified in U.S. Industry 481211, Nonscheduled Chartered Passenger Air Transportation;
         Providing air transportation of cargo without transporting passengers with no regular routes and regular
          schedules--are classified in U.S. Industry 481212, Nonscheduled Chartered Freight Air Transportation;
         Crop dusting using specialized aircraft--are classified in U.S. Industry 115112, Soil Preparation, Planting,
          and Cultivating;
         Fighting forest fires using specialized water bombers--are classified in Industry 115310, Support Activities
          for Forestry;
         Providing specialized air sightseeing services--are classified in Industry 487990, Scenic and Sightseeing
          Transportation, Other;
         Operating specialized flying schools, including all training for commercial pilots--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 611512, Flight Training;
         Providing specialized air ambulance services using specialized equipment--are classified in Industry
          621910, Ambulance Services;
         Operating recreation aviation clubs--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other Amusement and
          Recreation Industries;
         Operating advocacy aviation clubs--are classified in U.S. Industry 813319, Other Social Advocacy
          Organizations;
         Aerial gathering of geophysical data for surveying and mapping--are classified in Industry 541360,
          Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services; and
         Providing aerial and/or other surveying and mapping services--are classified in Industry 541370, Surveying
          and Mapping (except Geophysical) Services.

482       Rail Transportation    T



  Industries in the Rail Transportation subsector provide rail transportation of passengers and/or cargo using railroad
rolling stock. The railroads in this subsector primarily either operate on networks, with physical facilities, labor
force, and equipment spread over an extensive geographic area, or operate over a short distance on a local rail line.
  Scenic and sightseeing rail transportation and street railroads, commuter rail, and rapid transit are not included in
this subsector but are included in Subsector 487, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, and Subsector 485, Transit
and Ground Passenger Transportation, respectively. Although these activities use railroad rolling stock, they are
different from the activities included in rail transportation. Sightseeing and scenic railroads do not usually involve

place-to-place transportation; the passenger's trip typically starts and ends at the same location. Commuter railroads
operate in a manner more consistent with local and urban transit and are often part of integrated transit systems.

4821      Rail Transportation   T



48211     Rail Transportation   T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating railroads (except street railroads, commuter
rail, urban rapid transit, and scenic and sightseeing trains). Line-haul railroads and short-line railroads are included
in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating street railroads, commuter rail, and urban rapid transit systems--are classified in Industry Group
          4851, Urban Transit Systems;
         Operating scenic and sightseeing trains--are classified in Industry 48711, Scenic and Sightseeing
          Transportation, Land; and
         Operating switching and terminal facilities as separate establishments--are classified in Industry 48821,
          Support Activities for Rail Transportation.

482111 Line-Haul Railroads

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as line-haul railroads primarily engaged in operating railroads
for the transport of passengers and/or cargo over a long distance within a rail network. These establishments
provide for the intercity movement of trains between the terminals and stations on main and branch lines of a line-
haul rail network (except for local switching services).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating switching and terminal facilities as separate establishments--are classified in Industry 488210,
          Support Activities for Rail Transportation;
         Operating railroads over a short distance on local rail lines--are classified in U.S. Industry 482112, Short
          Line Railroads; and
         Operating commuter rail systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 485112, Commuter Rail Systems.

482112 Short Line Railroads

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as short-line railroads primarily engaged in operating
railroads for the transport of cargo over a short distance on local rail lines not part of a rail network.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating street railroads, commuter rail, and urban rapid transit systems--are classified in Industry Group
          4851, Urban Transit Systems;
         Operating scenic and sightseeing trains--are classified in Industry 487110, Scenic and Sightseeing
          Transportation, Land;
         Operating switching and terminal facilities as separate establishments--are classified in Industry 488210,
          Support Activities for Rail Transportation; and
         Operating railroads for the transport of passengers and/or cargo over a long distance--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 482111, Line-Haul Railroads.

483       Water Transportation    T



 Industries in the Water Transportation subsector provide water transportation of passengers and cargo using
watercraft, such as ships, barges, and boats.

  The subsector is composed of two industry groups: (1) one for deep sea, coastal, and Great Lakes; and (2) one for
inland water transportation. This split typically reflects the difference in equipment used.
  Scenic and sightseeing water transportation services are not included in this subsector but are included in
Subsector 487, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation. Although these activities use watercraft, they are different
from the activities included in water transportation. Water sightseeing does not usually involve place-to-place
transportation; the passenger's trip starts and ends at the same location.

4831      Deep Sea, Coastal, and Great Lakes Water Transportation          T



48311     Deep Sea, Coastal, and Great Lakes Water Transportation          T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing deep sea, coastal, Great Lakes, and St.
Lawrence Seaway water transportation. Marine transportation establishments using the facilities of the St.
Lawrence Seaway Authority Commission are considered to be using the Great Lakes Water Transportation System.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing inland water transportation on lakes, rivers, or intracoastal waterways (except on the Great Lakes
          System)--are classified in Industry 48321, Inland Water Transportation;
         Providing scenic and sightseeing water transportation, such as harbor cruises--are classified in Industry
          48721, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water; and
         Operating floating casinos (i.e., gambling cruises, river boat gambling casinos)--are classified in Industry
          71321, Casinos (except Casino Hotels).

483111 Deep Sea Freight Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing deep sea transportation of cargo to or
from foreign ports.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing deep sea transportation of cargo to and from domestic ports are
classified in U.S. Industry 483113, Coastal and Great Lakes Freight Transportation.

483112 Deep Sea Passenger Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing deep sea transportation of passengers
to or from foreign ports.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing deep sea transportation of passengers to and from domestic ports--are classified in U.S. Industry
          483114, Coastal and Great Lakes Passenger Transportation; and
         Operating floating casinos (i.e., gambling cruises)--are classified in Industry 713210, Casinos (except
          Casino Hotels).

483113 Coastal and Great Lakes Freight Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing water transportation of cargo in
coastal waters, on the Great Lakes System, or deep seas between ports of the United States, Puerto Rico, and United
States island possessions or protectorates. Marine transportation establishments using the facilities of the St.
Lawrence Seaway Authority Commission are considered to be using the Great Lakes Water Transportation System.
Establishments primarily engaged in providing coastal and/or Great Lakes barge transportation services are included
in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing deep sea transportation of cargo to or from foreign ports--are classified in U.S. Industry 483111,
          Deep Sea Freight Transportation; and
         Providing inland water transportation of cargo on lakes, rivers, or intracoastal waterways (except on the
          Great Lakes System)--are classified in U.S. Industry 483211, Inland Water Freight Transportation.

483114 Coastal and Great Lakes Passenger Transportation

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing water transportation of passengers in
coastal waters, the Great Lakes System, or deep seas between ports of the United States, Puerto Rico, and United
States island possessions and protectorates. Marine transportation establishments using the facilities of the St.
Lawrence Seaway Authority Commission are considered to be using the Great Lakes Water Transportation System.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing inland water transportation of passengers on lakes, rivers or intracoastal waterways (except on
          the Great Lakes System)--are classified in U.S. Industry 483212, Inland Water Passenger Transportation;
         Providing scenic and sightseeing water transportation, such as harbor cruises--are classified in Industry
          487210, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water; and
         Operating floating casinos (i.e., gambling cruises)--are classified in Industry 713210, Casinos (except
          Casino Hotels).

4832      Inland Water Transportation      T



48321     Inland Water Transportation      T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing inland water transportation of passengers
and/or cargo on lakes, rivers, or intracoastal waterways (except on the Great Lakes System).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing water transportation in deep sea, coastal, or on the Great Lakes System--are classified in Industry
          Group 4831, Deep Sea, Coastal, and Great Lakes Water Transportation;
         Providing scenic and sightseeing water transportation, such as harbor cruises--are classified in Industry
          48721, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water; and
         Operating floating casinos (i.e., gambling cruises, river boat gambling casinos)--are classified in Industry
          71321, Casinos (except Casino Hotels).

483211 Inland Water Freight Transportation

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing inland water transportation of cargo
on lakes, rivers, or intracoastal waterways (except on the Great Lakes System).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing deep sea transportation of cargo to and from foreign ports--are classified in U.S. Industry
          483111, Deep Sea Freight Transportation; and
         Providing water transportation of cargo in coastal waters or on the Great Lakes System--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 483113, Coastal and Great Lakes Freight Transportation.

483212 Inland Water Passenger Transportation

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing inland water transportation of
passengers on lakes, rivers, or intracoastal waterways (except on the Great Lakes System).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing deep sea transportation of passengers to and from foreign ports--are classified in U.S. Industry
          483112, Deep Sea Passenger Transportation;
         Operating cruise ships or ferries in coastal waters or on the Great Lakes System--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 483114, Coastal and Great Lakes Passenger Transportation; and
         Providing scenic and sightseeing water transportation, such as harbor cruises--are classified in Industry
          487210, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water.

484       Truck Transportation    T



  Industries in the Truck Transportation subsector provide over-the-road transportation of cargo using motor
vehicles, such as trucks and tractor trailers. The subsector is subdivided into general freight trucking and specialized
freight trucking. This distinction reflects differences in equipment used, type of load carried, scheduling, terminal,
and other networking services. General freight transportation establishments handle a wide variety of general
commodities, generally palletized, and transported in a container or van trailer. Specialized freight transportation is
the transportation of cargo that, because of size, weight, shape, or other inherent characteristics require specialized
equipment for transportation.
  Each of these industry groups is further subdivided based on distance traveled. Local trucking establishments
primarily carry goods within a single metropolitan area and its adjacent nonurban areas. Long distance trucking
establishments carry goods between metropolitan areas.
  The Specialized Freight Trucking industry group includes a separate industry for Used Household and Office
Goods Moving. The household and office goods movers are separated because of the substantial network of
establishments that has developed to deal with local and long-distance moving and the associated storage. In this
area, the same establishment provides both local and long-distance services, while other specialized freight
establishments generally limit their services to either local or long-distance hauling.

4841      General Freight Trucking    T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing general freight trucking. General
freight establishments handle a wide variety of commodities, generally palletized, and transported in a container or
van trailer. The establishments of this industry group provide a combination of the following network activities:
local pickup, local sorting and terminal operations, line-haul, destination sorting and terminal operations, and local
delivery.

48411     General Freight Trucking, Local     T

          See industry description for 484110 below.

484110 General Freight Trucking, Local

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing local general freight trucking. General
freight establishments handle a wide variety of commodities, generally palletized and transported in a container or
van trailer. Local general freight trucking establishments usually provide trucking within a metropolitan area which
may cross state lines. Generally the trips are same-day return.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating independent trucking terminals--are classified in Industry 488490, Other Support Activities for
          Road Transportation; and
         Providing general freight long-distance trucking including all North American international travel--are
          classified in Industry 48412, General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance.

48412     General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing long-distance general freight trucking.
General freight establishments handle a wide variety of commodities, generally palletized and transported in a
container or van trailer. Long-distance general freight trucking establishments usually provide trucking between

metropolitan areas which may cross North American country borders. Included in this industry are establishments
operating as truckload (TL) or less than truckload (LTL) carriers.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing courier services--are classified in Industry 49211, Couriers and Express Delivery Services;
         Providing warehousing services of general freight--are classified in Industry 49311, General Warehousing
          and Storage;
         Providing specialized freight trucking--are classified in Industry Group 4842, Specialized Freight Trucking;
         Operating independent trucking terminals--are classified in Industry 48849, Other Support Activities for
          Road Transportation; and
         Providing local general freight trucking services--are classified in Industry 48411, General Freight
          Trucking, Local.

484121 General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance, Truckload

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing long-distance general freight
truckload (TL) trucking. These long-distance general freight truckload carrier establishments provide full truck
movement of freight from origin to destination. The shipment of freight on a truck is characterized as a full single
load not combined with other shipments.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing general freight long-distance, less than truckload trucking--are classified in U.S. Industry
          484122, General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance, Less Than Truckload;
         Providing specialized freight trucking--are classified in Industry Group 4842, Specialized Freight Trucking;
         Operating independent trucking terminals--are classified in Industry 488490, Other Support Activities for
          Road Transportation; and
         Providing local general freight trucking services--are classified in Industry 484110, General Freight
          Trucking, Local.

484122 General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance, Less Than Truckload

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing long-distance, general freight, less
than truckload (LTL) trucking. LTL carriage is characterized as multiple shipments combined onto a single truck
for multiple deliveries within a network. These establishments are generally characterized by the following network
activities: local pickup, local sorting and terminal operations, line-haul, destination sorting and terminal operations,
and local delivery.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing courier services--are classified in Industry 492110, Couriers and Express Delivery Services;
         Providing warehousing services of general freight--are classified in Industry 493110, General Warehousing
          and Storage;
         Providing specialized freight trucking--are classified in Industry Group 4842, Specialized Freight Trucking;
         Operating independent trucking terminals--are classified in Industry 488490, Other Support Activities for
          Road Transportation;
         Providing general freight long-distance truckload trucking--are classified in U.S. Industry 484121, General
          Freight Trucking, Long-Distance, Truckload; and
         Providing local general freight trucking services--are classified in Industry 484110, General Freight
          Trucking, Local.

4842      Specialized Freight Trucking    T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing local or long-distance specialized
freight trucking. The establishments of this industry are primarily engaged in the transportation of freight which,

because of size, weight, shape, or other inherent characteristics, requires specialized equipment, such as flatbeds,
tankers, or refrigerated trailers. This industry includes the transportation of used household, institutional, and
commercial furniture and equipment.

48421     Used Household and Office Goods Moving          T

          See industry description for 484210 below.

484210 Used Household and Office Goods Moving

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing local or long-distance trucking of used
household, used institutional, or used commercial furniture and equipment. Incidental packing and storage activities
are often provided by these establishments.

48422     Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Local        T

          See industry description for 484220 below.

484220 Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Local

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing local, specialized trucking. Local trucking
establishments provide trucking within a metropolitan area that may cross state lines. Generally the trips are same-
day return.

Illustrative Examples:

Local agricultural products trucking
Local dump trucking (e.g., gravel, sand, top-soil)
Local boat hauling
Local livestock trucking
Local bulk liquids trucking

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing long-distance specialized freight (except used goods) trucking including all North American
          international travel--are classified in Industry 484230, Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking,
          Long-Distance;
         Providing local general freight trucking--are classified in Industry 484110, General Freight Trucking,
          Local;
         Providing trucking of used household and office goods--are classified in Industry 484210, Used Household
          and Office Goods Moving; and
         Providing waste collection--are classified in Industry Group 5621, Waste Collection.

48423     Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance         T

          See industry description for 484230 below.

484230 Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing long-distance specialized trucking. These
establishments provide trucking between metropolitan areas that may cross North American country borders.

Illustrative Examples:

Long-distance automobile carrier trucking
Long-distance refrigerated product trucking
Long-distance bulk liquid trucking
Long-distance trucking of waste
Long-distance hazardous material trucking

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing local specialized freight trucking (except used goods)--are classified in Industry 484220,
          Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Local;
         Providing long-distance general freight trucking including all North American international travel--are
          classified in Industry 48412, General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance;
         Providing trucking of used household and office goods--are classified in Industry 484210, Used Household
          and Office Goods Moving; and
         Collecting and/or hauling hazardous waste, nonhazardous waste, and/or recyclable materials within a local
          area--are classified in Industry 56211, Waste Collection.

485       Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation         T



  Industries in the Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation subsector include a variety of passenger
transportation activities, such as urban transit systems; chartered bus, school bus, and interurban bus transportation;
and taxis. These activities are distinguished based primarily on such production process factors as vehicle types,
routes, and schedules.
  In this subsector, the principal splits identify scheduled transportation as separate from nonscheduled
transportation. The scheduled transportation industry groups are Urban Transit Systems, Interurban and Rural Bus
Transportation, and School and Employee Bus Transportation. The nonscheduled industry groups are the Charter
Bus Industry and Taxi and Limousine Service. The Other Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation industry
group includes both scheduled and nonscheduled transportation.
  Scenic and sightseeing ground transportation services are not included in this subsector but are included in
Subsector 487, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation. Sightseeing does not usually involve place-to-place
transportation; the passenger's trip starts and ends at the same location.

4851      Urban Transit Systems     T



48511     Urban Transit Systems     T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating local and suburban passenger transit
systems over regular routes and on regular schedules within a metropolitan area and its adjacent nonurban areas.
Such transportation systems involve the use of one or more modes of transport including light rail, commuter rail,
subways, and streetcars, as well as buses and other motor vehicles.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing scenic and sightseeing transportation--are classified in Industry 48711, Scenic and Sightseeing
          Transportation, Land;
         Providing support services to transit and ground transportation--are classified in Industry Group 4884,
          Support Activities for Road Transportation; and
         Providing interurban and rural bus transportation--are classified in Industry 48521, Interurban and Rural
          Bus Transportation.

485111 Mixed Mode Transit Systems

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating local and suburban ground passenger
transit systems using more than one mode of transport over regular routes and on regular schedules within a
metropolitan area and its adjacent nonurban areas.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating local and suburban passenger transit systems using only one mode of transportation--are
          classified according to the mode of transport; and

         Providing support services to transit and ground passenger transportation--are classified in Industry Group
          4884, Support Activities for Road Transportation.

485112 Commuter Rail Systems

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating local and suburban commuter rail
systems over regular routes and on a regular schedule within a metropolitan area and its adjacent nonurban areas.
Commuter rail is usually characterized by reduced fares, multiple ride, and commutation tickets and mostly used by
passengers during the morning and evening peak periods.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating local and suburban mass passenger transit systems using both commuter rail and another mode
          of transport--are classified in U.S. Industry 485111, Mixed Mode Transit Systems;
         Operating a subway system--are classified in U.S. Industry 485119, Other Urban Transit Systems; and
         Providing scenic and sightseeing transportation on land--are classified in Industry 487110, Scenic and
          Sightseeing Transportation, Land.

485113 Bus and Other Motor Vehicle Transit Systems

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating local and suburban passenger
transportation systems using buses or other motor vehicles over regular routes and on regular schedules within a
metropolitan area and its adjacent nonurban areas.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating local and suburban passenger transportation systems using both a bus or other motor vehicle and
          another mode of transport--are classified in U.S. Industry 485111, Mixed Mode Transit Systems;
         Providing interurban and rural bus transportation--are classified in Industry 485210, Interurban and Rural
          Bus Transportation; and
         Providing scenic and sightseeing transportation using buses or other motor vehicles--are classified in
          Industry 487110, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Land.

485119 Other Urban Transit Systems

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating local and suburban ground passenger
transit systems (except mixed mode transit systems, commuter rail systems, and buses and other motor vehicles)
over regular routes and on regular schedules within a metropolitan area and its adjacent nonurban areas.

Illustrative Examples:

Commuter cable car systems (i.e., stand-alone)
Light rail systems (i.e., stand-alone)
Commuter tramway systems (i.e., stand-alone)
Monorail transit systems (i.e., stand-alone)
Commuter trolley systems (i.e., stand-alone)

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating local and suburban ground passenger transit systems using more than one mode of transport--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 485111, Mixed Mode Transit Systems;
         Providing local and suburban passenger transportation using commuter rail systems--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 485112, Commuter Rail Systems; and
         Operating local and suburban bus transit systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 485113, Bus and Other
          Motor Vehicle Transit Systems.

4852     Interurban and Rural Bus Transportation        T



48521    Interurban and Rural Bus Transportation        T

         See industry description for 485210 below.

485210 Interurban and Rural Bus Transportation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing bus passenger transportation over regular
routes and on regular schedules, principally outside a single metropolitan area and its adjacent nonurban areas.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing scenic and sightseeing transportation using buses--are classified in Industry 487110, Scenic and
         Sightseeing Transportation, Land;
        Providing buses for charter--are classified in Industry 485510, Charter Bus Industry;
        Operating local and suburban bus transit systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 485113, Bus and Other
         Motor Vehicle Transit Systems; and
        Operating independent bus terminals--are classified in Industry 488490, Other Support Activities for Road
         Transportation.

4853     Taxi and Limousine Service     T



48531    Taxi Service   T

         See industry description for 485310 below.

485310 Taxi Service

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing passenger transportation by automobile or
van, not operated over regular routes and on regular schedules. Establishments of taxicab owner/operators, taxicab
fleet operators, or taxicab organizations are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing special needs transportation services (except to and from school or work) for the infirm, elderly,
         or handicapped--are classified in U.S. Industry 485991, Special Needs Transportation;
        Providing limousine services--are classified in Industry 485320, Limousine Service; and
        Providing scheduled shuttle services between hotels, airports, or other destination points--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 485999, All Other Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation.

48532    Limousine Service    T

         See industry description for 485320 below.

485320 Limousine Service

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing an array of specialty and luxury passenger
transportation services via limousine or luxury sedans generally on a reserved basis. These establishments do not
operate over regular routes and on regular schedules.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing taxi services--are classified in Industry 485310, Taxi Service; and
        Providing scheduled shuttle services between hotels, airports, or other destination points--are classified in
         U.S. Industry 485999, All Other Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation.

4854     School and Employee Bus Transportation        T

48541    School and Employee Bus Transportation        T

         See industry description for 485410 below.

485410 School and Employee Bus Transportation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing buses and other motor vehicles to transport
pupils to and from school or employees to and from work.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Operating local and suburban bus transit systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 485113, Bus and Other
         Motor Vehicle Transit Systems;
        Providing interurban and rural bus transportation--are classified in Industry 485210, Interurban and Rural
         Bus Transportation; and
        Providing buses for charter--are classified in Industry 485510, Charter Bus Industry.

4855     Charter Bus Industry   T



48551    Charter Bus Industry   T

         See industry description for 485510 below.

485510 Charter Bus Industry

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing buses for charter. These establishments
provide bus services to meet customers' road transportation needs and generally do not operate over fixed routes and
on regular schedules.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing scenic and local sightseeing transportation using buses--are classified in Industry 487110, Scenic
         and Sightseeing Transportation, Land; and
        Providing interurban and rural bus transportation--are classified in Industry 485210, Interurban and Rural
         Bus Transportation.

4859     Other Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation         T



48599    Other Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing other transit and ground passenger
transportation (except urban transit systems, interurban and rural bus transportation, taxi services, school and
employee bus transportation, charter bus services, and limousine services (except shuttle services)). Shuttle services
(except employee bus) and special needs transportation services are included in this industry. Shuttle services
establishments generally travel within a metropolitan area and its adjacent nonurban areas on regular routes, on
regular schedules and provide services between hotels, airports, or other destination points. Special Needs
Transportation establishments provide passenger transportation to the infirm, elderly, or handicapped. These
establishments may use specially equipped vehicles to provide passenger transportation.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing school or employee bus transportation for the infirm, elderly, or handicapped--are classified in
         Industry 48541, School and Employee Bus Transportation;
        Providing ambulance services for emergency and medical purposes--are classified in Industry 62191,
         Ambulance Services;
        Operating urban transit systems--are classified in Industry Group 4851, Urban Transit Systems;
        Providing interurban and rural bus transportation--are classified in Industry 48521, Interurban and Rural
         Bus Transportation;

         Providing taxi services and/or limousine services (except shuttle services)--are classified in Industry Group
          4853, Taxi and Limousine Service; and
         Providing buses for charter--are classified in Industry 48551, Charter Bus Industry.

485991 Special Needs Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing special needs transportation (except
to and from school or work) to the infirm, elderly, or handicapped. These establishments may use specially
equipped vehicles to provide passenger transportation.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing school or employee bus transportation for the infirm, elderly, or handicapped--are classified in
          Industry 485410, School and Employee Bus Transportation; and
         Providing ambulance services for emergency and medical purposes--are classified in Industry 621910,
          Ambulance Services.

485999 All Other Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing ground passenger transportation
(except urban transit systems; interurban and rural bus transportation, taxi and/or limousine services (except shuttle
services), school and employee bus transportation, charter bus services, and special needs transportation).
Establishments primarily engaged in operating shuttle services and vanpools are included in this industry. Shuttle
services establishments generally provide travel on regular routes and on regular schedules between hotels, airports,
or other destination points.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating urban transit systems--are classified in Industry Group 4851, Urban Transit Systems;
         Providing interurban and rural bus transportation--are classified in Industry 485210, Interurban and Rural
          Bus Transportation;
         Providing taxi and/or limousine services (except shuttle services)--are classified in Industry Group 4853,
          Taxi and Limousine Service;
         Providing school and employee bus transportation (including for the infirm, elderly, or handicapped)--are
          classified in Industry 485410, School and Employee Bus Transportation;
         Providing buses for charter--are classified in Industry 485510, Charter Bus Industry;
         Providing special needs transportation (except to and from school or work) for the infirm, elderly, or
          handicapped--are classified in U.S. Industry 485991, Special Needs Transportation; and
         Providing ambulance services for emergency and medical purposes--are classified in Industry 621910,
          Ambulance Services.

486       Pipeline Transportation    T



  Industries in the Pipeline Transportation subsector use transmission pipelines to transport products, such as crude
oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products, and slurry. Industries are identified based on the products transported
(i.e., pipeline transportation of crude oil, natural gas, refined petroleum products, and other products).
  The Pipeline Transportation of Natural Gas industry includes the storage of natural gas because the storage is
usually done by the pipeline establishment and because a pipeline is inherently a network in which all the nodes are
interdependent.

4861      Pipeline Transportation of Crude Oil       T



48611     Pipeline Transportation of Crude Oil       T

          See industry description for 486110 below.

486110 Pipeline Transportation of Crude Oil

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the pipeline transportation of crude oil.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing the pipeline transportation of natural gas--are classified in Industry 486210, Pipeline
         Transportation of Natural Gas; and
        Providing the pipeline transportation of refined petroleum products--are classified in Industry 486910,
         Pipeline Transportation of Refined Petroleum Products.

4862     Pipeline Transportation of Natural Gas     T



48621    Pipeline Transportation of Natural Gas     T

         See industry description for 486210 below.

486210 Pipeline Transportation of Natural Gas

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the pipeline transportation of natural gas from
processing plants to local distribution systems.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in providing natural gas to the end consumer are classified in Industry 221210,
Natural Gas Distribution.

4869     Other Pipeline Transportation     T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the pipeline transportation of products (except
crude oil and natural gas).

48691    Pipeline Transportation of Refined Petroleum Products        T

         See industry description for 486910 below.

486910 Pipeline Transportation of Refined Petroleum Products

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the pipeline transportation of refined petroleum
products.

48699    All Other Pipeline Transportation    T

         See industry description for 486990 below.

486990 All Other Pipeline Transportation

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the pipeline transportation of products except crude
oil, natural gas, and refined petroleum products.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing pipeline transportation of crude oil--are classified in Industry 486110, Pipeline Transportation of
         Crude Oil;
        Providing pipeline transportation of natural gas--are classified in Industry 486210, Pipeline Transportation
         of Natural Gas;
        Providing pipeline transportation of refined petroleum products--are classified in Industry 486910, Pipeline
         Transportation of Refined Petroleum Products; and
        Operating water distribution systems--are classified in Industry 221310, Water Supply and Irrigation
         Systems.

487       Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation      T



  Industries in the Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation subsector utilize transportation equipment to provide
recreation and entertainment. These activities have a production process distinct from passenger transportation
carried out for the purpose of other types of for-hire transportation. This process does not emphasize efficient
transportation; in fact, such activities often use obsolete vehicles, such as steam trains, to provide some extra
ambience. The activity is local in nature, usually involving a same-day return to the point of departure.
  The Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation subsector is separated into three industries based on the mode: land,
water, and other.
  Activities that are recreational in nature and involve participation by the customer, such as white-water rafting, are
generally excluded from this subsector, unless they impose an impact on part of the transportation system. Charter
boat fishing, for example, is included in the Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water industry.

4871      Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Land       T



48711     Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Land       T

          See industry description for 487110 below.

487110 Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Land

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing scenic and sightseeing transportation on
land, such as sightseeing buses and trolleys, steam train excursions, and horse-drawn sightseeing rides. The services
provided are usually local and involve same-day return to place of origin.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating aerial trams or aerial cable cars--are classified in Industry 487990, Scenic and Sightseeing
          Transportation, Other;
         Providing sporting services, such as pack trains--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other Amusement
          and Recreation Industries;
         Providing intercity and rural bus transportation--are classified in Industry 485210, Interurban and Rural
          Bus Transportation;
         Providing buses for charter--are classified in Industry 485510, Charter Bus Industry;
         Operating local and suburban passenger transit systems--are classified in Industry 48511, Urban Transit
          Systems; and
         Providing passenger travel arrangements and tours--are classified in Industry Group 5615, Travel
          Arrangement and Reservation Services.

4872      Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water       T



48721     Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water       T

          See industry description for 487210 below.

487210 Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing scenic and sightseeing transportation on
water. The services provided are usually local and involve same-day return to place of origin.

Illustrative Examples:

Airboat (i.e., swamp buggy) operation
Excursion boat operation
Charter fishing boat services
Harbor sightseeing tours
Dinner cruises

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing recreation services, such as fishing guides, white-water rafting, parasailing, and water skiing--are
          classified in Industry 713990, All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries;
         Providing water taxi services--are classified in Industry 48321, Inland Water Transportation;
         Providing water transportation of passengers--are classified in Subsector 483, Water Transportation;
         Operating floating casinos (i.e., gambling cruises or river boat casinos)--are classified in Industry 713210,
          Casinos (except Casino Hotels); and
         Providing boat rental without operators--are classified in U.S. Industry 532292, Recreational Goods Rental.

4879      Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Other      T



48799     Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Other      T

          See industry description for 487990 below.

487990 Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Other

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing scenic and sightseeing transportation
(except on land and water). The services provided are usually local and involve same-day return to place of
departure.

Illustrative Examples:

Aerial cable cars, scenic and sightseeing operation
Helicopter rides, scenic and sightseeing operation
Aerial tramways, scenic and sightseeing operation
Hot air balloon rides, scenic and sightseeing operation
Glider excursions

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing recreational activities, such as hang gliding--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other
          Amusement and Recreation Industries; and
         Providing scheduled or nonscheduled air transportation of passengers or specialty flying services--are
          classified in Subsector 481, Air Transportation.

488       Support Activities for Transportation    T



  Industries in the Support Activities for Transportation subsector provide services which support transportation.
These services may be provided to transportation carrier establishments or to the general public. This subsector
includes a wide array of establishments, including air traffic control services, marine cargo handling, and motor
vehicle towing.
  The Support Activities for Transportation subsector includes services to transportation but is separated by type of
mode serviced. The Support Activities for Rail Transportation industry includes services to the rail industry (e.g.,
railroad switching and terminal establishments).
  Ship repair and maintenance not done in a shipyard are included in Other Support Activities for Water
Transportation. An example would be floating drydock services in a harbor.
  Excluded from this subsector are establishments primarily engaged in providing factory conversion and overhaul
of transportation equipment, which are classified in Subsector 336, Transportation Equipment Manufacturing. Also,
establishments primarily engaged in providing rental and leasing of transportation equipment without operator are
classified in Subsector 532, Rental and Leasing Services.

4881      Support Activities for Air Transportation    T

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing services to the air transportation
industry. These services include airport operation, servicing, repairing (except factory conversion and overhaul of
aircraft), maintaining and storing aircraft, and ferrying aircraft.

48811     Airport Operations    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating international, national, or civil airports
or public flying fields or (2) supporting airport operations (except special food services contractors), such as rental
of hangar space, air traffic control services, baggage handling services, and cargo handling services.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing factory conversion, overhaul, and rebuilding of aircraft--are classified in Industry 33641,
          Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing;
         Wholesaling fuel at airports--are classified in Industry 42472, Petroleum and Petroleum Products Merchant
          Wholesalers (except Bulk Stations and Terminals);
         Providing airport janitorial services--are classified in Industry 56172, Janitorial Services; and
         Providing food services at airports on a contractual arrangement (i.e., food service contractors)--are
          classified in Industry 72231, Food Service Contractors.

488111 Air Traffic Control

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air traffic control services to regulate
the flow of air traffic.

488119 Other Airport Operations

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating international, national, or civil
airports, or public flying fields or (2) supporting airport operations, such as rental of hangar space, and providing
baggage handling and/or cargo handling services.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing air traffic control services--are classified in U.S. Industry 488111, Air Traffic Control;
         Providing factory conversion, overhaul, and rebuilding of aircraft--are classified in Industry 33641,
          Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing;
         Wholesaling fuel at airports--are classified in Industry 424720, Petroleum and Petroleum Products
          Merchant Wholesalers (except Bulk Stations and Terminals);
         Providing airport janitorial services--are classified in Industry 561720, Janitorial Services; and
         Providing food services at airports on a contractual arrangement--are classified in Industry 722310, Food
          Service Contractors.

48819     Other Support Activities for Air Transportation       T

          See industry description for 488190 below.

488190 Other Support Activities for Air Transportation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing specialized services for air transportation
(except air traffic control and other airport operations).

Illustrative Examples:

Aircraft maintenance and repair services (except factory conversions, overhauls, rebuilding)
Aircraft testing services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Wholesaling fuel at airports--are classified in Industry 424720, Petroleum and Petroleum Products
          Merchant Wholesalers (except Bulk Stations and Terminals);
         Providing aircraft janitorial services--are classified in Industry 561720, Janitorial Services;
         Providing air traffic control services--are classified in U.S. Industry 488111, Air Traffic Control;
         Providing airport operations (except air traffic control)--are classified in U.S. Industry 488119, Other
          Airport Operations;
         Providing factory conversion, overhaul, and rebuilding of aircraft--are classified in Industry 33641,
          Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing; and
         Providing food services to airlines on a contractual arrangement--are classified in Industry 722310, Food
          Service Contractors.

4882      Support Activities for Rail Transportation      T



48821     Support Activities for Rail Transportation      T

          See industry description for 488210 below.

488210 Support Activities for Rail Transportation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing specialized services for railroad
transportation including servicing, routine repairing (except factory conversion, overhaul or rebuilding of rolling
stock), and maintaining rail cars; loading and unloading rail cars; and operating independent terminals.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing railroad car rental--are classified in U.S. Industry 532411, Commercial Air, Rail, and Water
          Transportation Equipment Rental and Leasing;
         Factory conversion, overhaul, or rebuilding of railroad rolling stock--are classified in Industry 336510,
          Railroad Rolling Stock Manufacturing; and
         Providing rail car janitorial services--are classified in Industry 561720, Janitorial Services.

4883      Support Activities for Water Transportation        T



48831     Port and Harbor Operations      T

          See industry description for 488310 below.

488310 Port and Harbor Operations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating ports, harbors (including docking and pier
facilities), or canals.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing stevedoring and other marine cargo handling services--are classified in Industry 488320, Marine
          Cargo Handling;
         Providing navigational services to shipping--are classified in Industry 488330, Navigational Services to
          Shipping; and
         Operating docking and/or storage facilities and commonly known as marinas--are classified in Industry
          713930, Marinas.

48832     Marine Cargo Handling      T

          See industry description for 488320 below.

488320 Marine Cargo Handling

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing stevedoring and other marine cargo
handling services (except warehousing).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Preparing freight for transportation--are classified in U.S. Industry 488991, Packing and Crating;
         Operating general merchandise, refrigerated, or other warehousing and storage facilities--are classified in
          Subsector 493, Warehousing and Storage; and
         Operating docking and pier facilities--are classified in Industry 488310, Port and Harbor Operations.

48833     Navigational Services to Shipping    T

          See industry description for 488330 below.

488330 Navigational Services to Shipping

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing navigational services to shipping. Marine
salvage establishments are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Docking and undocking marine vessel services
Piloting services, water transportation
Marine vessel traffic reporting services
Tugboat services, harbor operation

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing water transportation of barges (except coastal or Great Lakes barge transportation services)--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 483211, Inland Water Freight Transportation; and
         Providing coastal and/or Great Lakes barge transportation services--are classified in U.S. Industry 483113,
          Coastal and Great Lakes Freight Transportation.

48839     Other Support Activities for Water Transportation         T

          See industry description for 488390 below.

488390 Other Support Activities for Water Transportation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing services to water transportation (except
port and harbor operations; marine cargo handling services; and navigational services to shipping).

Illustrative Examples:

Floating drydocks (i.e., maintenance and routine repairs for ships)
Ship scaling services
Marine cargo checkers and surveyors

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Ship painting--are classified in Industry 238320, Painting and Wall Covering Contractors;
         Providing ship janitorial services--are classified in Industry 561720, Janitorial Services;
         Operating port, harbor, or canal facilities--are classified in Industry 488310, Port and Harbor Operations;
         Providing dredging services--are classified in Industry 237990, Other Heavy and Civil Engineering
          Construction;
         Providing stevedoring and other marine cargo handling services--are classified in Industry 488320, Marine
          Cargo Handling;

         Providing navigational services to shipping--are classified in Industry 488330, Navigational Services to
          Shipping; and
         Providing ship overhauling or repairs in a shipyard--are classified in U.S. Industry 336611, Ship Building
          and Repairing.

4884      Support Activities for Road Transportation      T



48841     Motor Vehicle Towing     T

          See industry description for 488410 below.

488410 Motor Vehicle Towing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in towing light or heavy motor vehicles, both local and
long distance. These establishments may provide incidental services, such as storage and emergency road repair
services.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating gasoline stations--are classified in Industry Group 4471, Gasoline Stations;
         Providing automotive repair and maintenance--are classified in Industry Group 8111, Automotive Repair
          and Maintenance; and
         Both retailing automotive parts and accessories, and repairing automobiles and known as automotive
          supply stores--are classified in Industry 441310, Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores.

48849     Other Support Activities for Road Transportation       T

          See industry description for 488490 below.

488490 Other Support Activities for Road Transportation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing services (except motor vehicle towing) to
road network users.

Illustrative Examples:

Bridge, tunnel, and highway operations
Pilot car services (i.e., wide load warning services)
Driving services (e.g., automobile, truck delivery)
Truck or weighing station operations

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing automotive repair and maintenance--are classified in Industry Group 8111, Automotive Repair
          and Maintenance;
         Providing towing services to motor vehicles--are classified in Industry 488410, Motor Vehicle Towing;
         Providing a network for busing in combination with providing terminal services--are classified in Industry
          485210, Interurban and Rural Bus Transportation; and
         Providing a network for trucking in combination with providing terminal services--are classified in
          Subsector 484, Truck Transportation.

4885      Freight Transportation Arrangement       T



48851     Freight Transportation Arrangement       T

          See industry description for 488510 below.

488510 Freight Transportation Arrangement

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in arranging transportation of freight between shippers
and carriers. These establishments are usually known as freight forwarders, marine shipping agents, or customs
brokers and offer a combination of services spanning transportation modes.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in tariff and freight rate consulting services are classified in U.S. Industry
541614, Process, Physical Distribution, and Logistics Consulting Services.

4889      Other Support Activities for Transportation       T



48899     Other Support Activities for Transportation       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing support activities to transportation (except
for air transportation; rail transportation; water transportation; road transportation; and freight transportation
arrangement).

Illustrative Examples:

Arrangement of vanpools or carpools
Stockyards (i.e., not for fattening or selling livestock)
Independent pipeline terminal facilities

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing support activities for air transportation--are classified in Industry Group 4881, Support Activities
          for Air Transportation;
         Providing support activities for rail transportation--are classified in Industry Group 4882, Support
          Activities for Rail Transportation;
         Providing support activities for water transportation--are classified in Industry Group 4883, Support
          Activities for Water Transportation;
         Providing support activities for road transportation--are classified in Industry Group 4884, Support
          Activities for Road Transportation;
         Arranging transportation of freight between shippers and carriers--are classified in Industry 48851, Freight
          Transportation Arrangement;
         Providing tariff and freight rate consulting services--are classified in Industry 54161, Management
          Consulting Services;
         Operating stockyards for fattening livestock--are classified in Subsector 112, Animal Production and
          Aquaculture; and
         Providing packaging and labeling services--are classified in Industry 56191, Packaging and Labeling
          Services.

488991 Packing and Crating

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in packing, crating, and otherwise preparing goods
for transportation.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing packaging and labeling services are classified in Industry 561910,
Packaging and Labeling Services.

488999 All Other Support Activities for Transportation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing support activities to transportation
(except for air transportation; rail transportation; water transportation; road transportation; freight transportation
arrangement; and packing and crating).

Illustrative Examples:

Arrangement of vanpools or carpools
Stockyards (i.e., not for fattening or selling livestock)
Independent pipeline terminal facilities

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating stockyards for fattening livestock--are classified in Subsector 112, Animal Production and
          Aquaculture;
         Providing tariff and freight rate consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541614, Process,
          Physical Distribution, and Logistics Consulting Services;
         Providing packing and crating services for transportation--are classified in U.S. Industry 488991, Packing
          and Crating;
         Providing support activities for air transportation--are classified in Industry Group 4881, Support Activities
          for Air Transportation;
         Providing support activities for rail transportation--are classified in Industry 488210, Support Activities for
          Rail Transportation;
         Providing support activities for water transportation--are classified in Industry Group 4883, Support
          Activities for Water Transportation;
         Providing support activities for road transportation--are classified in Industry Group 4884, Support
          Activities for Road Transportation; and
         Arranging transportation of freight between shippers and carriers--are classified in Industry 488510, Freight
          Transportation Arrangement.

491       Postal Service T



  The Postal Service subsector includes the activities of the National Post Office and its subcontractors operating
under a universal service obligation to provide mail services, and using the infrastructure required to fulfill that
obligation. These services include delivering letters and small parcels. These articles can be described as those that
can be handled by one person without using special equipment. This allows the collection, pick-up, and delivery
operations to be done with limited labor costs and minimal equipment. Sorting and transportation activities, where
necessary, are generally mechanized. The restriction to small parcels distinguishes these establishments from those
in the transportation industries. These establishments may also provide express delivery services using the
infrastructure established for provision of basic mail services.
  The traditional activity of the National Postal Service is described in this subsector. Subcontractors include rural
post offices on contract to the Postal Service.
  Bulk transportation of mail on contract to the Postal Service is not included here, because it is usually done by
transportation establishments that carry other customers' cargo as well. Establishments that provide courier and
express delivery services without operating under a universal service obligation are classified in subsector 492,
Couriers and Messengers.

4911      Postal Service T



49111     Postal Service T

          See industry description for 491110 below.

491110 Postal Service

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing mail services under a universal service
obligation. Mail services include the carriage of letters, printed matter, or mailable packages, including acceptance,
collection, processing, and delivery. Due to the infrastructure requirements of providing mail service under a

universal service obligation, postal service establishments often provide parcel and express delivery services in
addition to the mail service. Establishments primarily engaged in performing one or more parts of the basic mail
service, such as sorting, routing and/or delivery (except bulk transportation of mail) are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing bulk transportation of mail on a contract basis to and from postal service establishments--are
          classified in Industry Group 4841, General Freight Trucking;
         Providing services outside of the basic mail service, such as mail presort, mail consolidation, or address bar
          coding services, on a contract or fee basis--are classified in U.S. Industry 561499, All Other Business
          Support Services;
         Providing courier services--are classified in Industry 492110, Couriers and Express Delivery Services;
         Providing mailbox services along with other business services--are classified in U.S. Industry 561431,
          Private Mail Centers; and
         Providing local messenger and delivery services--are classified in Industry 492210, Local Messengers and
          Local Delivery.

492       Couriers and Messengers     T



  Industries in the Couriers and Messengers subsector provide intercity, local, and/or international delivery of
parcels and documents (including express delivery services) without operating under a universal service obligation.
These articles may originate in the U.S. but be delivered to another country and can be described as those that may
be handled by one person without using special equipment. This allows the collection, pick-up, and delivery
operations to be done with limited labor costs and minimal equipment. Sorting and transportation activities, where
necessary, are generally mechanized. The restriction to small parcels partly distinguishes these establishments from
those in the transportation industries. The complete network of courier services establishments also distinguishes
these transportation services from local messenger and delivery establishments in this subsector. This includes the
establishments that perform intercity transportation as well as establishments that, under contract to them, perform
local pick-up and delivery. Messengers, which usually deliver within a metropolitan or single urban area, may use
bicycle, foot, small truck, or van.

4921      Couriers and Express Delivery Services     T



49211     Couriers and Express Delivery Services     T

          See industry description for 492110 below.

492110 Couriers and Express Delivery Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing air, surface, or combined mode courier and
express delivery services of parcels, but not operating under a universal service obligation. These parcels can
include goods and documents, but the express delivery services are not part of the normal mail service. These
services are generally between metropolitan areas, urban centers, or international, but the establishments of this
industry form a network that includes local pick-up and delivery to serve their customers' needs.

Illustrative Examples:

Air courier services, except establishments operating under a universal service obligation
Express delivery services, except establishments operating under a universal service obligation
Courier services (i.e., intercity network), except establishments operating under a universal service obligation

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing parcel and express delivery services in addition to mail services under a universal service
          obligation--are classified in Industry 491110, Postal Service;
         Providing messenger and delivery services within a metropolitan area or within an urban center--are
          classified in Industry 492210, Local Messengers and Local Delivery; and

         Providing the truck transportation of palletized general freight--are classified in Industry Group 4841,
          General Freight Trucking.

4922      Local Messengers and Local Delivery      T



49221     Local Messengers and Local Delivery      T

          See industry description for 492210 below.

492210 Local Messengers and Local Delivery

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing local messenger and delivery services of
small items within a single metropolitan area or within an urban center. These establishments generally provide
point-to-point pickup and delivery and do not operate as part of an intercity courier network.

Illustrative Examples:

Alcoholic beverages delivery services
Letters, documents, or small parcels local delivery services
Grocery delivery services (i.e., independent service from grocery store)
Restaurant meals delivery services (i.e., independent service from restaurant)

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing local letter and parcel delivery services as part of an intercity courier network--are classified in
          Industry 492110, Couriers and Express Delivery Services;
         Operating the National Postal Service or providing postal services on a contract basis (except the bulk
          transportation of mail)--are classified in Industry 491110, Postal Service; and
         Providing the bulk transportation of mail on a contract basis to and from Postal Service establishments--are
          classified in Industry Group 4841, General Freight Trucking.

493       Warehousing and Storage      T



  Industries in the Warehousing and Storage subsector are primarily engaged in operating warehousing and storage
facilities for general merchandise, refrigerated goods, and other warehouse products. These establishments provide
facilities to store goods. They do not sell the goods they handle. These establishments take responsibility for
storing the goods and keeping them secure. They may also provide a range of services, often referred to as logistics
services, related to the distribution of goods. Logistics services can include labeling, breaking bulk, inventory
control and management, light assembly, order entry and fulfillment, packaging, pick and pack, price marking and
ticketing, and transportation arrangement. However, establishments in this industry group always provide
warehousing or storage services in addition to any logistic services. Furthermore, the warehousing or storage of
goods must be more than incidental to the performance of services, such as price marking.
  Bonded warehousing and storage services and warehouses located in free trade zones are included in the industries
of this subsector.

4931      Warehousing and Storage      T



49311     General Warehousing and Storage       T

          See industry description for 493110 below.

493110 General Warehousing and Storage

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating merchandise warehousing and storage
facilities. These establishments generally handle goods in containers, such as boxes, barrels, and/or drums, using
equipment, such as forklifts, pallets, and racks. They are not specialized in handling bulk products of any particular
type, size, or quantity of goods or products.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Renting or leasing space for self storage--are classified in Industry 531130, Lessors of Miniwarehouses and
          Self-Storage Units; and
         Selling in combination with handling and/or distributing goods to other wholesale or retail establishments--
          are classified in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade.

49312     Refrigerated Warehousing and Storage        T

          See industry description for 493120 below.

493120 Refrigerated Warehousing and Storage

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating refrigerated warehousing and storage
facilities. Establishments primarily engaged in the storage of furs for the trade are included in this industry. The
services provided by these establishments include blast freezing, tempering, and modified atmosphere storage
services.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in storing furs (except for the trade) and garments are classified in Industry
812320, Drycleaning and Laundry Services (except Coin-Operated).

49313     Farm Product Warehousing and Storage          T

          See industry description for 493130 below.

493130 Farm Product Warehousing and Storage

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating bulk farm product warehousing and storage
facilities (except refrigerated). Grain elevators primarily engaged in storage are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating refrigerated warehousing and storage facilities--are classified in Industry 493120, Refrigerated
          Warehousing and Storage; and
         Storing grains and field beans (i.e., grain elevators) as an incidental activity to sales--are classified in
          Industry 424510, Grain and Field Bean Merchant Wholesalers.

49319     Other Warehousing and Storage       T

          See industry description for 493190 below.

493190 Other Warehousing and Storage

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating warehousing and storage facilities (except
general merchandise, refrigerated, and farm product warehousing and storage).

Illustrative Examples:

Bulk petroleum storage
Lumber storage terminals
Document storage and warehousing
Whiskey warehousing

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Renting or leasing space for self storage--are classified in Industry 531130, Lessors of Miniwarehouses and
          Self-Storage Units;

 Storing hazardous materials for treatment and disposal--are classified in U.S. Industry 562211, Hazardous
  Waste Treatment and Disposal;
 Operating general warehousing and storage facilities--are classified in Industry 493110, General
  Warehousing and Storage;
 Wholesaling of petroleum bulk--are classified in Industry 424710, Petroleum Bulk Stations and Terminals;
 Operating refrigerated warehousing and storage facilities--are classified in Industry 493120, Refrigerated
  Warehousing and Storage; and
 Operating farm product warehousing and storage facilities--are classified in Industry 493130, Farm Product
  Warehousing and Storage.

                                          Sector 51--Information                T


                                               The Sector as a Whole

  The Information sector comprises establishments engaged in the following processes: (a) producing and
distributing information and cultural products, (b) providing the means to transmit or distribute these products as
well as data or communications, and (c) processing data.
  The main components of this sector are the publishing industries, including software publishing, and both
traditional publishing and publishing exclusively on the Internet; the motion picture and sound recording industries;
the broadcasting industries, including traditional broadcasting and those broadcasting exclusively over the Internet;
the telecommunications industries; Web search portals, data processing industries, and the information services
industries.
  The expressions ''information age'' and ''global information economy'' are used with considerable frequency today.
The general idea of an ''information economy'' includes both the notion of industries primarily producing,
processing, and distributing information, as well as the idea that every industry is using available information and
information technology to reorganize and make themselves more productive.
  For the purposes of NAICS, it is the transformation of information into a commodity that is produced and
distributed by a number of growing industries that is at issue. The Information sector groups three types of
establishments: (1) those engaged in producing and distributing information and cultural products; (2) those that
provide the means to transmit or distribute these products as well as data or communications; and (3) those that
process data. Cultural products are those that directly express attitudes, opinions, ideas, values, and artistic
creativity; provide entertainment; or offer information and analysis concerning the past and present. Included in this
definition are popular, mass-produced products as well as cultural products that normally have a more limited
audience, such as poetry books, literary magazines, or classical records.
  The unique characteristics of information and cultural products, and of the processes involved in their production
and distribution, distinguish the Information sector from the goods-producing and service-producing sectors. Some
of these characteristics are:

1. Unlike traditional goods, an ''information or cultural product,'' such as a newspaper on-line or television program,
does not necessarily have tangible qualities, nor is it necessarily associated with a particular form. A movie can be
shown at a movie theater, on a television broadcast, through video-on-demand or rented at a local video store. A
sound recording can be aired on radio, embedded in multimedia products, or sold at a record store.

2. Unlike traditional services, the delivery of these products does not require direct contact between the supplier and
the consumer.

3. The value of these products to the consumer lies in their informational, educational, cultural, or entertainment
content, not in the format in which they are distributed. Most of these products are protected from unlawful
reproduction by copyright laws.

4. The intangible property aspect of information and cultural products makes the processes involved in their
production and distribution very different from goods and services. Only those possessing the rights to these works
are authorized to reproduce, alter, improve, and distribute them. Acquiring and using these rights often involves
significant costs. In addition, technology is revolutionizing the distribution of these products. It is possible to
distribute them in a physical form, via broadcast, or on-line.

5. Distributors of information and cultural products can easily add value to the products they distribute. For
instance, broadcasters add advertising not contained in the original product. This capacity means that unlike
traditional distributors, they derive revenue not from sale of the distributed product to the final consumer, but from
those who pay for the privilege of adding information to the original product. Similarly, a directory and mailing list
publisher can acquire the rights to thousands of previously published newspaper and periodical articles and add new
value by providing search and software and organizing the information in a way that facilitates research and
retrieval. These products often command a much higher price than the original information.

 The distribution modes for information commodities may either eliminate the necessity for traditional manufacture,
or reverse the conventional order of manufacture-distribute: A newspaper distributed on-line, for example, can be
printed locally or by the final consumer. Similarly, it is anticipated that packaged software, which today is mainly
bought through the traditional retail channels, will soon be available mainly on-line. The NAICS Information sector
is designed to make such economic changes transparent as they occur, or to facilitate designing surveys that will
monitor the new phenomena and provide data to analyze the changes.
  Many of the industries in the NAICS Information sector are engaged in producing products protected by copyright
law, or in distributing them (other than distribution by traditional wholesale and retail methods). Examples are
traditional publishing industries, software and directory and mailing list publishing industries, and film and sound
industries. Broadcasting and telecommunications industries and information providers and processors are also
included in the Information sector, because their technologies are so closely linked to other industries in the
Information sector.

511       Publishing Industries (except Internet)    T



  Industries in the Publishing Industries (except Internet) subsector group establishments engaged in the publishing
of newspapers, magazines, other periodicals, and books, as well as directory and mailing list and software
publishing. In general, these establishments, which are known as publishers, issue copies of works for which they
usually possess copyright. Works may be in one or more formats including traditional print form, CD-ROM, or
proprietary electronic networks. Publishers may publish works originally created by others for which they have
obtained the rights and/or works that they have created in-house. Software publishing is included here because the
activity, creation of a copyrighted product and bringing it to market, is equivalent to the creation process for other
types of intellectual products.
  In NAICS, publishing--the reporting, writing, editing, and other processes that are required to create an edition of
a newspaper--is treated as a major economic activity in its own right, rather than as a subsidiary activity to a
manufacturing activity, printing. Thus, publishing is classified in the Information sector; whereas, printing remains
in the NAICS Manufacturing sector. In part, the NAICS classification reflects the fact that publishing increasingly
takes place in establishments that are physically separate from the associated printing establishments. More
crucially, the NAICS classification of book and newspaper publishing is intended to portray their roles in a modern
economy, in which they do not resemble manufacturing activities.
  Music publishers are not included in the Publishing Industries (except Internet) subsector, but are included in the
Motion Picture and Sound Recording Industries subsector. Reproduction of prepackaged software is treated in
NAICS as a manufacturing activity; on-line distribution of software products is in the Information sector, and
custom design of software to client specifications is included in the Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services
sector. These distinctions arise because of the different ways that software is created, reproduced, and distributed.
  The Publishing Industries (except Internet) subsector does not include establishments that publish exclusively on
the Internet. Establishments publishing exclusively on the Internet are included in Subsector 519, Other Information
Service. The Publishing Industries (except Internet) subsector also excludes products, such as manifold business
forms. Information is not the essential component of these items. Establishments producing these items are
included in Subsector 323, Printing and Related Support Activities.

5111      Newspaper, Periodical, Book, and Directory Publishers        T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in publishing newspapers, magazines, other
periodicals, books, directories and mailing lists, and other works, such as calendars, greeting cards, and maps.
These works are characterized by the intellectual creativity required in their development and are usually protected
by copyright. Publishers distribute or arrange for the distribution of these works.
  Publishing establishments may create the works in-house, contract for, purchase, or compile works that were
originally created by others. These works may be published in one or more formats, such as print and/or electronic
form, including proprietary electronic networks. Establishments in this industry may print, reproduce, or offer direct
access to the works themselves or may arrange with others to carry out such functions.
  Establishments that both print and publish may fill excess capacity with commercial or job printing. However, the
publishing activity is still considered to be the primary activity of these establishments.

51111     Newspaper Publishers     T

          See industry description for 511110 below.

511110 Newspaper Publishers

  This industry comprises establishments known as newspaper publishers. Establishments in this industry carry out
operations necessary for producing and distributing newspapers, including gathering news; writing news columns,
feature stories, and editorials; and selling and preparing advertisements. These establishments may publish
newspapers in print or electronic form.

Cross-References.

      Establishments publishing newspapers exclusively on the Internet are classified in Industry 519130,
          Internet Publishing and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals;
      Establishments primarily engaged in printing newspapers without publishing are classified in Industry
          32311, Printing;
      Establishments, such as trade associations, schools and universities, and social welfare organizations that
          publish newsletters for distribution to their membership, but that are not commonly known as newspaper
          publishers, are classified according to their primary activity designation;
      Establishments primarily engaged in supplying the news media with information, such as news, reports,
          and pictures, are classified in Industry 519110, News Syndicates; and
      Establishments of independent representatives primarily engaged in selling advertising space are classified
          in Industry 541840, Media Representatives.

51112     Periodical Publishers   T

          See industry description for 511120 below.

511120 Periodical Publishers

  This industry comprises establishments known either as magazine publishers or periodical publishers. These
establishments carry out the operations necessary for producing and distributing magazines and other periodicals,
such as gathering, writing, and editing articles, and selling and preparing advertisements. These establishments may
publish magazines and other periodicals in print or electronic form.

Illustrative Examples:

Comic book publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Radio and television guide publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Magazine publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Scholarly journal publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Newsletter publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Trade journal publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)

Cross-References.

      Establishments publishing periodicals exclusively on the Internet are classified in Industry 519130, Internet
          Publishing and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals;
      Establishments primarily engaged in printing periodicals without publishing are classified in Industry
          32311, Printing;
      Establishments, such as trade associations, schools and universities, and social welfare organizations, that
          publish magazines and periodicals for distribution to their membership, but that are not commonly known
          as periodical publishers, are classified according to their primary activity designation;
      Establishments primarily engaged in publishing directories and mailing lists are classified in Industry
          511140, Directory and Mailing List Publishers; and
      Establishments of independent representatives primarily engaged in selling advertising space are classified
          in Industry 541840, Media Representatives.

51113     Book Publishers  T

          See industry description for 511130 below.

511130 Book Publishers

  This industry comprises establishments known as book publishers. Establishments in this industry carry out
design, editing, and marketing activities necessary for producing and distributing books. These establishments may
publish books in print, electronic, or audio form.

Illustrative Examples:

Atlas publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Religious book publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Book publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
School textbook publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Encyclopedia publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Technical manual publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Map publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Travel guide book publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)

Cross-References.

      Establishments publishing books on the Internet exclusively are classified in Industry 519130, Internet
          Publishing and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals;
      Establishments primarily engaged in printing books without publishing are classified in U.S. Industry
          323117, Books Printing;
      Establishments known as music publishers are classified in Industry 512230, Music Publishers;
      Establishments, such as trade associations, schools and universities, and social welfare organizations, that
          publish books for distribution to their membership, that are not commonly known as book publishers, are
          classified according to their primary activity designation; and
      Book clubs primarily engaged in direct sales activities without publishing are classified in Industry 454390,
          Other Direct Selling Establishments.

51114     Directory and Mailing List Publishers      T

          See industry description for 511140 below.

511140 Directory and Mailing List Publishers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in publishing directories, mailing lists, and collections
or compilations of fact. The products are typically protected in their selection, arrangement and/or presentation.
Examples are lists of mailing addresses, telephone directories, directories of businesses, collections or compilations
of proprietary drugs or legal case results, compilations of public records, etc. These establishments may publish
directories and mailing lists in print or electronic form.

Illustrative Examples:

Business directory publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Mailing list publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Directory publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Telephone directory publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating web search portals or developing and publishing, exclusively on the Internet, collections or
          compilations of creative works or facts--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet Publishing and
          Broadcasting and Web Search Portals;
      Compiling mailing lists in conjunction with providing direct mail advertising services--are classified in
          Industry 541860, Direct Mail Advertising;
      Printing without publishing directories and mailing lists--are classified in Industry 32311, Printing;
      Publishing computer software--are classified in Industry 511210, Software Publishers;
      Creating and publishing encyclopedias and similar collections of creative works in print and/or electronic
          media--are classified in Industry 511130, Book Publishers; and
      Creating and publishing collections of creative works that are periodically updated--are classified in
          Industry 511120, Periodical Publishers.

51119     Other Publishers  T



  This industry comprises establishments known as publishers (except newspaper, magazine, book, directory,
mailing list, and music publishers). These establishments may publish works in print or electronic form.

Illustrative Examples:

Art print publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Greeting card publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Calendar publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)

Cross-References.

      Establishments publishing exclusively on the Internet are classified in Industry 51913, Internet Publishing
          and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals;
      Establishments known as newspaper publishers are classified in Industry 51111, Newspaper Publishers;
      Establishments known as magazine and other periodical publishers are classified in Industry 51112,
          Periodical Publishers;
      Establishments known as book publishers are classified in Industry 51113, Book Publishers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in publishing directories and mailing lists are classified in Industry
          51114, Directory and Mailing List Publishers;
      Establishments known as music publishers are classified in Industry 51223, Music Publishers; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing manifold business forms are classified in Industry
          32311, Printing.

511191 Greeting Card Publishers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in publishing greeting cards.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Publishing greeting cards exclusively on the Internet--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet Publishing
          and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals; and
      Printing greeting cards without publishing--are classified in Industry 32311, Printing.

511199 All Other Publishers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments generally known as publishers (except newspaper, magazine, book,
directory, database, music, and greeting card publishers). These establishments may publish works in print or
electronic form.

Illustrative Examples:

Art print publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)
Calendar publishers (except exclusive Internet publishing)

Cross-References.

      Establishments publishing exclusively on the Internet are classified in Industry 519130, Internet Publishing
          and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals;
      Establishments known as newspaper publishers are classified in Industry 511110, Newspaper Publishers;
      Establishments known as magazine or other periodical publishers are classified in Industry 511120,
          Periodical Publishers;
      Establishments known as book publishers are classified in Industry 511130, Book Publishers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in publishing directories and mailing lists are classified in Industry
          511140, Directory and Mailing List Publishers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in greeting card publishing are classified in U.S. Industry 511191,
          Greeting Card Publishers;
      Establishments known as music publishers are classified in Industry 512230, Music Publishers; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing day schedulers and/or manifold business forms are
          classified in U.S. Industry 323111, Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books).

5112      Software Publishers   T



51121     Software Publishers   T

          See industry description for 511210 below.

511210 Software Publishers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in computer software publishing or publishing and
reproduction. Establishments in this industry carry out operations necessary for producing and distributing
computer software, such as designing, providing documentation, assisting in installation, and providing support
services to software purchasers. These establishments may design, develop, and publish, or publish only.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Reselling packaged software--are classified in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade or Sector 44-45, Retail Trade;
      Providing access to software for clients from a central host site--are classified in Industry 518210, Data
          Processing, Hosting, and Related Services;
      Designing software to meet the needs of specific users--are classified in U.S. Industry 541511, Custom
          Computer Programming Services; and
      Mass duplication of software--are classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software and Other Prerecorded
          Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing.

512       Motion Picture and Sound Recording Industries        T



 Industries in the Motion Picture and Sound Recording Industries subsector group establishments involved in the
production and distribution of motion pictures and sound recordings. While producers and distributors of motion
pictures and sound recordings issue works for sale as traditional publishers do, the processes are sufficiently
different to warrant placing establishments engaged in these activities in a separate subsector. Production is
typically a complex process that involves several distinct types of establishments that are engaged in activities, such
as contracting with performers, creating the film or sound content, and providing technical postproduction services.
Film distribution is often to exhibitors, such as theaters and broadcasters, rather than through the wholesale and
retail distribution chain. When the product is in a mass-produced form, NAICS treats production and distribution as
the major economic activity as it does in the Publishing Industries (except Internet) subsector, rather than as a
subsidiary activity to the manufacture of such products.
 This subsector does not include establishments primarily engaged in the wholesale distribution of videocassettes
and sound recordings, such as compact discs and audio tapes; these establishments are included in the Wholesale

Trade sector. Reproduction of videocassettes and sound recordings that is carried out separately from
establishments engaged in production and distribution is treated in NAICS as a manufacturing activity.

5121     Motion Picture and Video Industries      T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in the production and/or distribution of motion
pictures, videos, television programs, or commercials; in the exhibition of motion pictures; or in the provision of
postproduction and related services.

51211    Motion Picture and Video Production       T

         See industry description for 512110 below.

512110 Motion Picture and Video Production

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in producing, or producing and distributing motion
pictures, videos, television programs, or television commercials.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Producing motion pictures and videos on contract as independent producers--are classified in Industry
         711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers;
     Providing teleproduction and other postproduction services--are classified in U.S. Industry 512191,
         Teleproduction and Other Postproduction Services;
     Providing video taping of weddings, special events, and/or business inventories--are classified in Industry
         54192, Photographic Services;
     Providing motion picture laboratory services--are classified in U.S. Industry 512199, Other Motion Picture
         and Video Industries;
     Providing mass duplication and packaging of video tapes--are classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software
         and Other Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing; and
     Acquiring distribution rights and distributing motion pictures and videos--are classified in Industry 512120,
         Motion Picture and Video Distribution.

51212    Motion Picture and Video Distribution      T

         See industry description for 512120 below.

512120 Motion Picture and Video Distribution

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acquiring distribution rights and distributing film and
video productions to motion picture theaters, television networks and stations, and exhibitors.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Producing and distributing motion pictures and videos--are classified in Industry 512110, Motion Picture
         and Video Production;
     Merchant wholesale distribution of blank video cassette tapes and discs--are classified in Industry 423690,
         Other Electronic Parts and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers;
     Merchant wholesale distribution of prerecorded video cassette tapes and discs--are classified in Industry
         423990, Other Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers;
     Providing mass duplication and packaging of video tapes--are classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software
         and Other Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing;
     Providing motion picture footage (via film libraries) to producers--are classified in U.S. Industry 512199,
         Other Motion Picture and Video Industries;
     Renting video tapes and discs to the general public--are classified in Industry 532230, Video Tape and Disc
         Rental; and

      Selling video cassettes and discs to the general public--are classified in U.S. Industry 443142, Electronics
          Stores.

51213     Motion Picture and Video Exhibition        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating motion picture theaters and/or exhibiting
motion pictures or videos at film festivals, and so forth.

512131 Motion Picture Theaters (except Drive-Ins)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating motion picture theaters (except drive-
ins) and/or exhibiting motion pictures or videos at film festivals, and so forth.

512132 Drive-In Motion Picture Theaters

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating drive-in motion picture theaters.

51219     Postproduction Services and Other Motion Picture and Video Industries            T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing postproduction services and other services
to the motion picture industry, including specialized motion picture or video postproduction services, such as
editing, film/tape transfers, titling, subtitling, credits, closed captioning, and computer-produced graphics, animation
and special effects, as well as developing and processing motion picture film.

Illustrative Examples:

Motion picture film laboratories
Stock footage film libraries
Postproduction facilities
Teleproduction services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Mass duplicating video tapes and film--are classified in Industry 33461, Manufacturing and Reproducing
          Magnetic and Optical Media;
      Providing audio services for film, television, and video productions--are classified in Industry 51224,
          Sound Recording Studios;
      Renting wardrobes and costumes for motion picture production--are classified in Industry 53222, Formal
          Wear and Costume Rental;
      Renting studio equipment--are classified in Industry 53249, Other Commercial and Industrial Machinery
          and Equipment Rental and Leasing; and
      Casting actors and actresses with production companies--are classified in Industry 56131, Employment
          Placement Agencies and Executive Search Services.

512191 Teleproduction and Other Postproduction Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing specialized motion picture or video
postproduction services, such as editing, film/tape transfers, subtitling, credits, closed captioning, and animation and
special effects.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Mass duplicating video tapes and film--are classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software and Other
          Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing;

      Developing and processing motion picture film--are classified in U.S. Industry 512199, Other Motion
          Picture and Video Industries;
      Providing audio services for film, television, and video productions--are classified in Industry 512240,
          Sound Recording Studios; and
      Acquiring distribution rights and distributing film and video productions to motion picture theaters,
          television networks and stations, and exhibitors--are classified in Industry 512120, Motion Picture and
          Video Distribution.

512199 Other Motion Picture and Video Industries

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing motion picture and video services
(except motion picture and video production, distribution, exhibition, and teleproduction and other postproduction
services).

Illustrative Examples:

Motion picture film laboratories
Stock footage film libraries
Film preservation services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting wardrobes and costumes for motion picture production--are classified in Industry 532220, Formal
          Wear and Costume Rental;
      Renting studio equipment--are classified in Industry 532490, Other Commercial and Industrial Machinery
          and Equipment Rental and Leasing;
      Casting actors and actresses with production companies--are classified in U.S. Industry 561311,
          Employment Placement Agencies;
      Motion picture and video production--are classified in Industry 512110, Motion Picture and Video
          Production;
      Motion picture and video distribution--are classified in Industry 512120, Motion Picture and Video
          Distribution;
      Teleproduction and other postproduction services--are classified in U.S. Industry 512191, Teleproduction
          and Other Postproduction Services; and
      Motion picture and video exhibition--are classified in Industry 51213, Motion Picture and Video
          Exhibition.

5122      Sound Recording Industries    T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in producing and distributing musical recordings,
in publishing music, or in providing sound recording and related services.

51221     Record Production   T

          See industry description for 512210 below.

512210 Record Production

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in record production (e.g., tapes, CDs). These
establishments contract with artists and arrange and finance the production of original master recordings.
Establishments in this industry hold the copyright to the master recording and derive most of their revenues from the
sales, leasing, and licensing of master recordings. Establishments in this industry do not have their own duplication
or distribution capabilities.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Releasing, promoting, and distributing recordings--are classified in Industry 512220, Integrated Record
          Production/Distribution;
      Promoting and authorizing the use of musical works in various media--are classified in Industry 512230,
          Music Publishers;
      Mass duplication services--are classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software and Other Prerecorded
          Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of blank audio cassettes, tapes, and discs--are classified in Industry
          423690, Other Electronic Parts and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of prerecorded audio cassettes, tapes, and discs--are classified in Industry
          423990, Other Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers;
      Managing the careers of artists--are classified in Industry 711410, Agents and Managers for Artists,
          Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public Figures;
      Providing facilities and technical expertise for recording musical performances--are classified in Industry
          512240, Sound Recording Studios; and
      Producing albums on contract as independent producers--are classified in Industry 711510, Independent
          Artists, Writers, and Performers.

51222     Integrated Record Production/Distribution      T

          See industry description for 512220 below.

512220 Integrated Record Production/Distribution

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in releasing, promoting, and distributing sound
recordings. These establishments manufacture or arrange for the manufacture of recordings, such as audio
tapes/cassettes and compact discs, and promote and distribute these products to wholesalers, retailers, or directly to
the public. Establishments in this industry produce master recordings themselves, or obtain reproduction and
distribution rights to master recordings produced by record production companies or other integrated record
companies.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Contracting with musical artists, arranging for the production of master recordings, and marketing the
          reproduction rights--are classified in Industry 512210, Record Production;
      Providing facilities and technical expertise for recording musical performances--are classified in Industry
          512240, Sound Recording Studios;
      Mass duplication of recorded products--are classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software and Other
          Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing;
      Merchant wholesale distribution of prerecorded audio cassettes, tapes, and discs--are classified in Industry
          423990, Other Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers; and
      Retailing records, tapes, and compact discs without producing recordings--are classified in Sector 44-45,
          Retail Trade.

51223     Music Publishers   T

          See industry description for 512230 below.

512230 Music Publishers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acquiring and registering copyrights for musical
compositions in accordance with law and promoting and authorizing the use of these compositions in recordings,
radio, television, motion pictures, live performances, print, or other media. Establishments in this industry represent
the interests of the songwriter or other owners of musical compositions to produce revenues from the use of such
works, generally through licensing agreements. These establishments may own the copyright or act as administrator
of the music copyrights on behalf of copyright owners. Publishers of music books and sheet music are included in
this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged as independent songwriters who act as their own publishers are classified in
Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers.

51224    Sound Recording Studios     T

         See industry description for 512240 below.

512240 Sound Recording Studios

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing the facilities and technical expertise for
sound recording in a studio. This industry includes establishments that provide audio production and postproduction
services to produce master recordings. These establishments may provide audio services for film, television, and
video productions.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Releasing, promoting, and distributing sound recordings--are classified in Industry 512220, Integrated
         Record Production/Distribution;
     Providing mass duplication of recorded products--are classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software and
         Other Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing; and
     Contracting with musical artists, arranging for the production of master recordings, and marketing the
         reproduction rights--are classified in Industry 512210, Record Production.

51229    Other Sound Recording Industries      T

         See industry description for 512290 below.

512290 Other Sound Recording Industries

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing sound recording services (except record
production, distribution, music publishing, and sound recording in a studio). Establishments in this industry provide
services, such as the audio recording of meetings and conferences.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Producing records, including contracting with musical artists, arranging and financing the production of
         master recordings, and marketing the reproduction rights--are classified in Industry 512210, Record
         Production;
     Releasing, promoting, and distributing sound recordings--are classified in Industry 512220, Integrated
         Record Production/Distribution;
     Promoting and authorizing the use of musical works in various media--are classified in Industry 512230,
         Music Publishers;
     Providing facilities and expertise for recording musical performance--are classified in Industry 512240,
         Sound Recording Studios;
     Providing mass duplication of recorded products--are classified in U.S. Industry 334614, Software and
         Other Prerecorded Compact Disc, Tape, and Record Reproducing; and
     Organizing and promoting the presentation of performing arts productions--are classified in Industry Group
         7113, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events.

515      Broadcasting (except Internet)    T



  Industries in the Broadcasting (except Internet) subsector include establishments that create content or acquire the
right to distribute content and subsequently broadcast the content. The industry groups (Radio and Television
Broadcasting and Cable and Other Subscription Programming) are based on differences in the methods of
communication and the nature of services provided. The Radio and Television Broadcasting industry group

includes establishments that operate broadcasting studios and facilities for over the air or satellite delivery of radio
and television programs of entertainment, news, talk, and the like. These establishments are often engaged in the
production and purchase of programs and generating revenues from the sale of air time to advertisers and from
donations, subsidies, and/or the sale of programs. The Cable and Other Subscription Programming industry group
includes establishments operating studios and facilities for the broadcasting of programs that are typically
narrowcast in nature (limited format, such as news, sports, education, and youth-oriented programming) on a
subscription or fee basis.
 The distribution of cable and other subscription programming is included in Subsector 517, Telecommunications.
Establishments that broadcast exclusively on the Internet are included in Subsector 519, Other Information Services.

5151      Radio and Television Broadcasting      T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating broadcast studios and facilities for
over-the-air or satellite delivery of radio and television programs. These establishments are often engaged in the
production or purchase of programs or generate revenues from the sale of air time to advertisers, from donations and
subsidies, or from the sale of programs.

51511     Radio Broadcasting     T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in broadcasting audio signals. These establishments
operate radio broadcasting studios and facilities for the transmission of aural programming to the public, to
affiliates, or to subscribers. The radio programs may include entertainment, news, talk shows, business data, or
religious services.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Broadcasting exclusively on the Internet--are classified in Industry 51913, Internet Publishing and
          Broadcasting and Web Search Portals; and
      Producing taped radio programming--are classified in Industry 51229, Other Sound Recording Industries.

515111 Radio Networks

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in assembling and transmitting aural programming
to their affiliates or subscribers via over-the-air broadcasts, cable, or satellite. The programming covers a wide
variety of material, such as news services, religious programming, weather, sports, or music.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Broadcasting exclusively on the Internet--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet Publishing and
          Broadcasting and Web Search Portals; and
      Producing taped radio programming--are classified in Industry 512290, Other Sound Recording Industries.

515112 Radio Stations

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in broadcasting aural programs by radio to the
public. Programming may originate in their own studio, from an affiliated network, or from external sources.

51512     Television Broadcasting    T

          See industry description for 515120 below.

515120 Television Broadcasting

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in broadcasting images together with sound. These
establishments operate television broadcasting studios and facilities for the programming and transmission of
programs to the public. These establishments also produce or transmit visual programming to affiliated broadcast

television stations, which in turn broadcast the programs to the public on a predetermined schedule. Programming
may originate in their own studio, from an affiliated network, or from external sources.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Broadcasting exclusively on the Internet--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet Publishing and
         Broadcasting and Web Search Portals;
      Producing taped television program materials--are classified in Industry 512110, Motion Picture and Video
         Production;
      Furnishing cable and other pay television services--are classified in Industry 517110, Wired
         Telecommunications Carriers; and
      Producing and broadcasting television programs for cable and satellite television systems--are classified in
         Industry 515210, Cable and Other Subscription Programming.

5152     Cable and Other Subscription Programming           T



51521    Cable and Other Subscription Programming           T

         See industry description for 515210 below.

515210 Cable and Other Subscription Programming

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating studios and facilities for the broadcasting
of programs on a subscription or fee basis. The broadcast programming is typically narrowcast in nature (e.g.,
limited format, such as news, sports, education, or youth-oriented). These establishments produce programming in
their own facilities or acquire programming from external sources. The programming material is usually delivered
to a third party, such as cable systems or direct-to-home satellite systems, for transmission to viewers.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Producing taped television program material--are classified in Industry 512110, Motion Picture and Video
         Production;
      Producing and transmitting television programs to affiliated stations--are classified in Industry 515120,
         Television Broadcasting;
      Furnishing cable and other pay television services--are classified in Industry 517110, Wired
         Telecommunications Carriers; and
      Retailing merchandise by electronic media, such as television--are classified in Industry 45411, Electronic
         Shopping and Mail-Order Houses.

517      Telecommunications      T



  Industries in the Telecommunications subsector group establishments that provide telecommunications and the
services related to that activity (e.g., telephony, including Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP); cable and satellite
television distribution services; Internet access; telecommunications reselling services). The Telecommunications
subsector is primarily engaged in operating, and/or providing access to facilities for the transmission of voice, data,
text, sound, and video. Transmission facilities may be based on a single technology or a combination of
technologies. Establishments in the Telecommunications subsector are grouped into four industry groups. The first
three are comprised of establishments that operate transmission facilities and infrastructure that they own and/or
lease, and provide telecommunications services using those facilities. The distinction among the first three industry
groups is the type of infrastructure operated (i.e., wired, wireless, or satellite). The fourth industry group is
comprised of establishments that provide support activities, telecommunications reselling services, or many of the
same services provided by establishments in the first three industry groups, but do not operate as
telecommunications carriers. Establishments primarily engaged as independent contractors in the installation and
maintenance of broadcasting and telecommunications systems are classified in Sector 23, Construction.
Establishments known as Internet cafes, primarily engaged in offering limited Internet connectivity in combination
with other services such as facsimile services, training, rental of on-site personal computers, game rooms, or food

services are classified in Subsector 561, Administrative and Support Services, or Subsector 722, Food Services and
Drinking Places, depending on the primary activity.

5171      Wired Telecommunications Carriers        T



51711     Wired Telecommunications Carriers        T

          See industry description for 517110 below.

517110 Wired Telecommunications Carriers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating and/or providing access to transmission
facilities and infrastructure that they own and/or lease for the transmission of voice, data, text, sound, and video
using wired telecommunications networks. Transmission facilities may be based on a single technology or a
combination of technologies. Establishments in this industry use the wired telecommunications network facilities
that they operate to provide a variety of services, such as wired telephony services, including VoIP services; wired
(cable) audio and video programming distribution; and wired broadband Internet services. By exception,
establishments providing satellite television distribution services using facilities and infrastructure that they operate
are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Broadband Internet service providers, wired (e.g. cable, DSL)
Local telephone carriers, wired
Cable television distribution services
Long-distance telephone carriers, wired
Closed circuit television (CCTV) services
VoIP service providers, using own operated wired telecommunications infrastructure
Direct-to-home satellite system (DTH) services
Telecommunications carriers, wired
Satellite television distribution systems
Multichannel multipoint distribution services (MMDS)

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Producing and distributing a channel of television programming for cable or satellite television systems--
          are classified in Industry 515210, Cable and Other Subscription Programming;
      Operating coin-operated pay telephones--are classified in Industry 812990, All Other Personal Services;
      Operating and maintaining wireless telecommunications networks--are classified in Industry 517210,
          Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite);
      Producing and distributing radio programs for cable or satellite radio systems--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 515111, Radio Networks;
      Reselling telecommunications services (except satellite telecommunications), without operating a network-
          -are classified in U.S. Industry 517911, Telecommunications Resellers;
      Publishing telephone directories--are classified in Industry 511140, Directory and Mailing List Publishers;
      Reselling satellite telecommunications services--are classified in Industry 517410, Satellite
          Telecommunications;
      Providing Internet access services via client-supplied telecommunications connections (e.g. dial up ISP's)--
          are classified in U.S. Industry 517919, All Other Telecommunications;
      Providing voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) services via client-supplied telecommunications connections-
          -are classified in U.S. Industry 517919, All Other Telecommunications; and
      Providing limited Internet connectivity at locations known as Internet cafes, in combination with other
          services such as facsimile services, training, rental of on-site personal computers, games rooms, or food
          services--are classified in U.S. Industry 561439, Other Business Service Centers (including Copy Shops) or
          Subsector 722, Food Services and Drinking Places, depending on the primary activity.

5172      Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)       T



51721     Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)       T

          See industry description for 517210 below.

517210 Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)

  This industry comprises establishments engaged in operating and maintaining switching and transmission facilities
to provide communications via the airwaves. Establishments in this industry have spectrum licenses and provide
services using that spectrum, such as cellular phone services, paging services, wireless Internet access, and wireless
video services.

Illustrative Examples:

Cellular telephone services
Wireless Internet service providers, except satellite
Paging services, except satellite
Wireless telephone communications carriers, except satellite

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating and maintaining wired telecommunications networks--are classified in Industry 517110, Wired
          Telecommunications Carriers;
      Operating and maintaining satellite networks--are classified in Industry 517410, Satellite
          Telecommunications;
      Providing satellite television distribution services--are classified in Industry 517110, Wired
          Telecommunications Carriers; and
      Operating as mobile virtual network operations (MVNO)--are classified in U.S. Industry 517911,
          Telecommunications Resellers.

5174      Satellite Telecommunications     T



51741     Satellite Telecommunications     T

          See industry description for 517410 below.

517410 Satellite Telecommunications

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing telecommunications services to other
establishments in the telecommunications and broadcasting industries by forwarding and receiving communications
signals via a system of satellites or reselling satellite telecommunications.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing direct-to-home satellite television services to individual households
or consumers are classified in Industry 517110, Wired Telecommunications Carriers.

5179      Other Telecommunications      T



51791     Other Telecommunications      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) purchasing access and network capacity from
owners and operators of telecommunications networks and reselling wired and wireless telecommunications services
(except satellite) to businesses and households; (2) providing specialized telecommunications services, such as
satellite tracking, communications telemetry, and radar station operation; (3) providing satellite terminal stations and
associated facilities connected with one or more terrestrial systems and capable of transmitting telecommunications
to, and receiving telecommunications from, satellite systems; or (4) providing Internet access services or Voice over

Internet protocol (VoIP) services via client-supplied telecommunications connections. Establishments in this
industry do not operate as telecommunications carriers. Mobile virtual network operators (MVNO) are included in
this industry.

517911 Telecommunications Resellers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments engaged in purchasing access and network capacity from owners and
operators of telecommunications networks and reselling wired and wireless telecommunications services (except
satellite) to businesses and households. Establishments in this industry resell telecommunications; they do not
operate transmission facilities and infrastructure. Mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) are included in this
industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating and maintaining wired telecommunications networks--are classified in Industry 517110, Wired
          Telecommunications Carriers;
      Operating and maintaining wireless telecommunications networks--are classified in Industry 517210,
          Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite); and
      Reselling satellite telecommunications services--are classified in Industry 517410, Satellite
          Telecommunications.

517919 All Other Telecommunications

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing specialized telecommunications
services, such as satellite tracking, communications telemetry, and radar station operation. This industry also
includes establishments primarily engaged in providing satellite terminal stations and associated facilities connected
with one or more terrestrial systems and capable of transmitting telecommunications to, and receiving
telecommunications from, satellite systems. Establishments providing Internet services or voice over Internet
protocol (VoIP) services via client-supplied telecommunications connections are also included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Dial-up Internet service providers
VoIP service providers, using client-supplied telecommunications connections
Internet service providers using client-supplied telecommunications connections (e.g., dial-up ISPs)
Satellite tracking stations

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing wired broadband Internet services via own operated telecommunications infrastructure--are
          classified in Industry 517110, Wired Telecommunications Carriers;
      Providing wired VoIP services via own operated telecommunications infrastructure--are classified in
          Industry 517110, Wired Telecommunications Carriers;
      Providing expert advice in the field of information technology or in integrating communication and
          computer systems--are classified in Industry 54151, Computer Systems Design and Related Services; and
      Providing satellite telecommunications services--are classified in Industry 517410, Satellite
          Telecommunications.

518       Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services    T



  Industries in the Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services subsector group establishments that provide the
infrastructure for hosting and/or data processing services.

5182      Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services    T

51821     Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services    T

          See industry description for 518210 below.

518210 Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing infrastructure for hosting or data
processing services. These establishments may provide specialized hosting activities, such as web hosting,
streaming services or application hosting; provide application service provisioning; or may provide general time-
share mainframe facilities to clients. Data processing establishments provide complete processing and specialized
reports from data supplied by clients or provide automated data processing and data entry services.

Illustrative Examples:

Application hosting
Optical scanning services
Application service providers
Web hosting
Computer data storage services
Video and audio streaming service
Computer input preparation services
Microfilm imaging services
Computer time rental

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing text processing and related document preparation activities--are classified in Industry 561410,
          Document Preparation Services;
      Providing on-site management and operation of a client's data-processing facilities--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 541513, Computer Facilities Management Services;
      Providing wired broadband Internet access services using own operated telecommunications infrastructure,
          in combination with web hosting--are classified in Industry 517110, Wired Telecommunications Carriers;
      Providing Internet access via client-supplied telecommunications connections in combination with web
          hosting--are classified in U.S. Industry 517919, All Other Telecommunications;
      Operating web search portals--are classified in U.S. Industry 519130, Internet Publishing and Broadcasting
          and Web Search Portals;
      Providing access to computers and office equipment, as well as other office support services--are classified
          in Industry 56143, Business Service Centers;
      Processing financial transactions, such as credit card transactions--are classified in Industry 522320,
          Financial Transactions Processing, Reserve, and Clearinghouse Activities; and
      Providing payroll processing services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541214, Payroll Services.

519       Other Information Services    T



  Industries in the Other Information Services subsector group establishments supplying information, storing and
providing access to information, searching and retrieving information, operating Web sites that use search engines to
allow for searching information on the Internet, or publishing and/or broadcasting content exclusively on the
Internet. The main components of the subsector are news syndicates, libraries, archives, exclusive Internet
publishing and/or broadcasting, and Web Search Portals.

5191      Other Information Services    T



51911     News Syndicates   T

          See industry description for 519110 below.

519110 News Syndicates

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in supplying information, such as news reports, articles,
pictures, and features, to the news media.

Cross-References.

  Independent writers and journalists (including photojournalists) are classified in Industry 711510, Independent
Artists, Writers, and Performers.

51912     Libraries and Archives   T

          See industry description for 519120 below.

519120 Libraries and Archives

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing library or archive services. These
establishments are engaged in maintaining collections of documents (e.g., books, journals, newspapers, and music)
and facilitating the use of such documents (recorded information regardless of its physical form and characteristics)
as are required to meet the informational, research, educational, or recreational needs of their user. These
establishments may also acquire, research, store, preserve, and generally make accessible to the public historical
documents, photographs, maps, audio material, audiovisual material, and other archival material of historical
interest. All or portions of these collections may be accessible electronically.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing stock footage (via motion picture and video tape libraries) to the media, multimedia, and
          advertising industries--are classified in U.S. Industry 512199, Other Motion Picture and Video Industries;
      Providing stock music to the media, multimedia, and advertising industries--are classified in Industry
          512290, Other Sound Recording Industries;
      Providing stock photos to the media, multimedia, and advertising industries--are classified in Industry
          519190, All Other Information Services; and
      Distributing film and video productions to motion picture theaters, television networks and stations, and
          exhibitors--are classified in Industry 512120, Motion Picture and Video Distribution.

51913     Internet Publishing and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals         T

          See industry description for 519130 below.

519130 Internet Publishing and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) publishing and/or broadcasting content on the
Internet exclusively or (2) operating Web sites that use a search engine to generate and maintain extensive databases
of Internet addresses and content in an easily searchable format (and known as Web search portals). The publishing
and broadcasting establishments in this industry do not provide traditional (non-Internet) versions of the content that
they publish or broadcast. They provide textual, audio, and/or video content of general or specific interest on the
Internet exclusively. Establishments known as Web search portals often provide additional Internet services, such as
e-mail, connections to other web sites, auctions, news, and other limited content, and serve as a home base for
Internet users.

Illustrative Examples:

Internet book publishers
Internet sports sites
Internet entertainment sites
Internet video broadcast sites
Internet game sites
Internet news publishers
Internet periodical publishers

Internet radio stations
Internet search portals
Web search portals
Internet search web sites

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing wired broadband Internet access using own operated telecommunications infrastructure--are
          classified in Industry 517110, Wired Telecommunications Carriers;
      Providing both Internet publishing and other print or electronic (e.g., CD-ROM, diskette) editions in the
          same establishment or using proprietary networks to distribute content--are classified in Subsector 511,
          Publishing Industries (except Internet) based on the materials produced;
      Providing Internet access via client-supplied telecommunications connections--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 517919, All Other Telecommunications;
      Providing streaming services on content owned by others--are classified in Industry 518210, Data
          Processing, Hosting, and Related Services;
      Wholesaling goods on the Internet--are classified in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade;
      Retailing goods on the Internet--are classified in Sector 44-45, Retail Trade; and
      Operating stock brokerages, travel reservation systems, purchasing services, and similar activities using the
          Internet rather than traditional methods--are classified with the more traditional establishments providing
          these services.

51919     All Other Information Services    T

          See industry description for 519190 below.

519190 All Other Information Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing other information services (except news
syndicates, libraries, archives, Internet publishing and broadcasting, and Web search portals).

Illustrative Examples:

News clipping services
Telephone-based information services
Stock photo agencies

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing wired broadband Internet access services using own operated telecommunications infrastructure-
          -are classified in Industry 517110, Wired Telecommunications Carriers;
      Providing Internet access via client-supplied telecommunications connections--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 517919, All Other Telecommunications;
      Publishing (except exclusively on the Internet)--are classified in Subsector 511, Publishing Industries
          (except Internet);
      Publishing or broadcasting exclusively on the Internet--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet
          Publishing and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals;
      Operating Web search portals--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet Publishing and Broadcasting and
          Web Search Portals;
      Operating news syndicates--are classified in Industry 519110, News Syndicates; and
      Operating libraries and archives--are classified in Industry 519120, Libraries and Archives.

                                   Sector 52--Finance and Insurance                    T


                                                The Sector as a Whole

  The Finance and Insurance sector comprises establishments primarily engaged in financial transactions
(transactions involving the creation, liquidation, or change in ownership of financial assets) and/or in facilitating
financial transactions. Three principal types of activities are identified:

  1. Raising funds by taking deposits and/or issuing securities and, in the process, incurring liabilities.
Establishments engaged in this activity use raised funds to acquire financial assets by making loans and/or
purchasing securities. Putting themselves at risk, they channel funds from lenders to borrowers and transform or
repackage the funds with respect to maturity, scale, and risk. This activity is known as financial intermediation.

  2. Pooling of risk by underwriting insurance and annuities. Establishments engaged in this activity collect fees,
insurance premiums, or annuity considerations; build up reserves; invest those reserves; and make contractual
payments. Fees are based on the expected incidence of the insured risk and the expected return on investment.

  3. Providing specialized services facilitating or supporting financial intermediation, insurance, and employee
benefit programs.

  In addition, monetary authorities charged with monetary control are included in this sector.
  The subsectors, industry groups, and industries within the NAICS Finance and Insurance sector are defined on the
basis of their unique production processes. As with all industries, the production processes are distinguished by
their use of specialized human resources and specialized physical capital. In addition, the way in which these
establishments acquire and allocate financial capital, their source of funds, and the use of those funds provides a
third basis for distinguishing characteristics of the production process. For instance, the production process in
raising funds through deposit-taking is different from the process of raising funds in bond or money markets. The
process of making loans to individuals also requires different production processes than does the creation of
investment pools or the underwriting of securities.
  Most of the Finance and Insurance subsectors contain one or more industry groups of (1) intermediaries with
similar patterns of raising and using funds and (2) establishments engaged in activities that facilitate, or are
otherwise related to, that type of financial or insurance intermediation. Industries within this sector are defined in
terms of activities for which a production process can be specified, and many of these activities are not exclusive to
a particular type of financial institution. To deal with the varied activities taking place within existing financial
institutions, the approach is to split these institutions into components performing specialized services. This requires
defining the units engaged in providing those services and developing procedures that allow for their delineation.
These units are the equivalents for finance and insurance of the establishments defined for other industries.
  The output of many financial services, as well as the inputs and the processes by which they are combined, cannot
be observed at a single location and can only be defined at a higher level of the organizational structure of the
enterprise. Additionally, a number of independent activities that represent separate and distinct production
processes may take place at a single location belonging to a multilocation financial firm. Activities are more likely
to be homogeneous with respect to production characteristics than are locations, at least in financial services. The
classification defines activities broadly enough that it can be used both by those classifying by location and by those
employing a more top-down approach to the delineation of the establishment.
  Establishments engaged in activities that facilitate, or are otherwise related to, the various types of intermediation
have been included in individual subsectors, rather than in a separate subsector dedicated to services alone because
these services are performed by intermediaries, as well as by specialist establishments, the extent to which the
activity of the intermediaries can be separately identified is not clear.
  The Finance and Insurance sector has been defined to encompass establishments primarily engaged in financial
transactions; that is, transactions involving the creation, liquidation, change in ownership of financial assets; or in
facilitating financial transactions. Financial industries are extensive users of electronic means for facilitating the
verification of financial balances, authorizing transactions, transferring funds to and from transactors' accounts,
notifying banks (or credit card issuers) of the individual transactions, and providing daily summaries. Since these
transaction processing activities are integral to the production of finance and insurance services, establishments that

principally provide a financial transaction processing service are classified to this sector, rather than to the data
processing industry in the Information sector.
  Legal entities that hold portfolios of assets on behalf of others are significant and data on them are required for a
variety of purposes. Thus for NAICS, these funds, trusts, and other financial vehicles are the fifth subsector of the
Finance and Insurance sector. These entities earn interest, dividends, and other property income, but have little or
no employment and no revenue from the sale of services. Separate establishments and employees devoted to the
management of funds are classified in Industry Group 5239, Other Financial Investment Activities.

521      Monetary Authorities-Central Bank        T



  The Monetary Authorities-Central Bank subsector groups establishments that engage in performing central
banking functions, such as issuing currency, managing the Nation's money supply and international reserves,
holding deposits that represent the reserves of other banks and other central banks, and acting as a fiscal agent for
the central government.

5211     Monetary Authorities-Central Bank        T



52111    Monetary Authorities-Central Bank        T

         See industry description for 521110 below

521110 Monetary Authorities-Central Bank

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing central banking functions, such as issuing
currency, managing the Nation's money supply and international reserves, holding deposits that represent the
reserves of other banks and other central banks, and acting as a fiscal agent for the central government.

Cross-References.

  Establishments of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System are classified in Industry 921130, Public
Finance Activities.

522      Credit Intermediation and Related Activities      T



  Industries in the Credit Intermediation and Related Activities subsector group establishments that (1) lend funds
raised from depositors; (2) lend funds raised from credit market borrowing; or (3) facilitate the lending of funds or
issuance of credit by engaging in such activities as mortgage and loan brokerage, clearinghouse and reserve services,
and check cashing services.

5221     Depository Credit Intermediation

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in accepting deposits (or share deposits) and in
lending funds from these deposits. Within this group, industries are defined on the basis of differences in the types
of deposit liabilities assumed and in the nature of the credit extended.

52211    Commercial Banking
         See industry description for 522110 below.

522110 Commercial Banking

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in accepting demand and other deposits and making
commercial, industrial, and consumer loans. Commercial banks and branches of foreign banks are included in this
industry.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in credit card banking are classified in Industry 522210, Credit Card
         Issuing;
      Establishments known as industrial banks and primarily engaged in accepting deposits are classified in
         Industry 522190, Other Depository Credit Intermediation; and
      Establishments of depository institutions primarily engaged in trust activities are classified in U.S. Industry
         523991, Trust, Fiduciary, and Custody Activities.

52212    Savings Institutions
         See industry description for 522120 below.

522120 Savings Institutions

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in accepting time deposits, making mortgage and real
estate loans, and investing in high-grade securities. Savings and loan associations and savings banks are included in
this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in accepting demand and other deposits and making all types of loans are
classified in Industry 522110, Commercial Banking.

52213    Credit Unions
         See industry description for 522130 below.

522130 Credit Unions

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in accepting members' share deposits in cooperatives
that are organized to offer consumer loans to their members.

52219    Other Depository Credit Intermediation
         See industry description for 522190 below.

522190 Other Depository Credit Intermediation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in accepting deposits and lending funds (except
commercial banking, savings institutions, and credit unions). Establishments known as industrial banks or Morris
Plans and primarily engaged in accepting deposits, and private banks (i.e., unincorporated banks) are included in this
industry.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in accepting demand and other deposits and making all types of loans are
         classified in Industry 522110, Commercial Banking;
      Establishments primarily engaged in accepting time deposits are classified in Industry 522120, Savings
         Institutions;
      Establishments primarily engaged in accepting members' share deposits in cooperatives are classified in
         Industry 522130, Credit Unions; and
      Establishments known as industrial banks and Morris Plans and are primarily engaged in providing
         nondepository credit are classified in U.S. Industry 522298, All Other Nondepository Credit
         Intermediation.

5222     Nondepository Credit Intermediation

  This industry group comprises establishments, both public (government-sponsored enterprises) and private,
primarily engaged in extending credit or lending funds raised by credit market borrowing, such as issuing

commercial paper or other debt instruments or by borrowing from other financial intermediaries. Within this group,
industries are defined on the basis of the type of credit being extended.

52221     Credit Card Issuing
          See industry description for 522210 below.

522210 Credit Card Issuing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing credit by issuing credit cards. Credit card
issuance provides the funds required to purchase goods and services in return for payment of the full balance or
payments on an installment basis. Credit card banks are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in issuing cards that contain a stored prepaid value are classified with the
industry providing the service represented by the cards, such as transit fare cards, in Subsector 482, Rail
Transportation, and long-distance telephone cards in Subsector 517, Telecommunications.

52222     Sales Financing
          See industry description for 522220 below.

522220 Sales Financing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in sales financing or sales financing in combination
with leasing. Sales financing establishments are primarily engaged in lending money for the purpose of providing
collateralized goods through a contractual installment sales agreement, either directly from or through arrangements
with dealers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments not engaged in sales financing, but primarily engaged in providing leases for equipment and other
assets are classified in Subsector 532, Rental and Leasing Services.

52229     Other Nondepository Credit Intermediation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in making cash loans or extending credit through credit
instruments (except credit cards and sales finance agreements).

Illustrative Examples:

Consumer finance companies (i.e., unsecured cash loans)
Mortgage companies
International trade financing
Secondary market financing

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing credit sales by issuing credit cards--are classified in Industry 52221, Credit Card Issuing;
      Providing leases for equipment and other assets without sales financing--are classified in Subsector 532,
          Rental and Leasing Services;
      Accepting deposits and lending funds from these deposits--are classified in Industry Group 5221,
          Depository Credit Intermediation;
      Arranging loans for others on a commission or fee basis--are classified in Industry 52231, Mortgage and
          Nonmortgage Loan Brokers; and
      Guaranteeing international trade loans--are classified in Industry 52412, Direct Insurance (except Life,
          Health, and Medical) Carriers.

522291 Consumer Lending

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in making unsecured cash loans to consumers.

Illustrative Examples:

Finance companies (i.e., unsecured cash loans)
Personal credit institutions (i.e., unsecured cash loans)
Loan companies (i.e., consumer, personal, student, small)
Student loans companies

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Accepting deposits and lending funds from these deposits--are classified in Industry Group 5221,
          Depository Credit Intermediation; and
      Arranging loans for others on a commission or fee basis--are classified in Industry 522310, Mortgage and
          Nonmortgage Loan Brokers.

522292 Real Estate Credit

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in lending funds with real estate as collateral.

Illustrative Examples:

Home equity credit lending
Mortgage companies
Mortgage banking (i.e., nondepository mortgage lending)

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Servicing loans--are classified in Industry 522390, Other Activities Related to Credit Intermediation;
      Arranging loans for others on a commission or fee basis--are classified in Industry 522310, Mortgage and
          Nonmortgage Loan Brokers; and
      Accepting deposits and lending funds secured by real estate--are classified in Industry Group 5221,
          Depository Credit Intermediation.

522293 International Trade Financing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing one or more of the following: (1)
working capital funds to U.S. exporters; (2) lending funds to foreign buyers of U.S. goods; and/or (3) lending funds
to domestic buyers of imported goods.

Illustrative Examples:

Agreement corporations (i.e., international trade financing)
Export-Import banks
Edge Act corporations (i.e., international trade financing)
Trade banks (i.e., international trade financing)

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Guaranteeing international trade loans--are classified in U.S. Industry 524126, Direct Property and
          Casualty Insurance Carriers;

      Brokering international trade loans--are classified in Industry 522310, Mortgage and Nonmortgage Loan
          Brokers; and
      Accepting deposits and lending funds from these deposits--are classified in Industry Group 5221,
          Depository Credit Intermediation.

522294 Secondary Market Financing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in buying, pooling, and repackaging loans for sale
to others on the secondary market.

Illustrative Examples:

Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC)
Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA)
Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA)
Student Loan Marketing Association (SLMA)

522298 All Other Nondepository Credit Intermediation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing nondepository credit (except credit
card issuing, sales financing, consumer lending, real estate credit, international trade financing, and secondary
market financing). Examples of types of lending in this industry are: short-term inventory credit, agricultural
lending (except real estate and sales financing) and consumer cash lending secured by personal property.

Illustrative Examples:

Commodity Credit Corporation
Morris Plans (i.e., known as), nondepository
Factoring accounts receivable
Pawnshops
Industrial banks (i.e., known as), nondepository

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in providing credit sales funding are classified in Industry 522210,
          Credit Card Issuing;
      Establishments primarily engaged in sales financing or sales financing in combination with leasing are
          classified in Industry 522220, Sales Financing;
      Establishments primarily engaged in making unsecured cash loans to consumers are classified in U.S.
          Industry 522291, Consumer Lending;
      Establishments primarily engaged in lending funds with real estate as collateral are classified in U.S.
          Industry 522292, Real Estate Credit;
      Establishments primarily engaged in international trade financing are classified in U.S. Industry 522293,
          International Trade Financing;
      Establishments primarily engaged in buying, pooling, and repackaging loans for sale to others on the
          secondary market are classified in U.S. Industry 522294, Secondary Market Financing; and
      Establishments known as industrial banks or Morris Plans and are primarily engaged in accepting deposits
          are classified in Industry 522190, Other Depository Credit Intermediation.

5223      Activities Related to Credit Intermediation

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in facilitating credit intermediation by
performing activities, such as arranging loans by bringing borrowers and lenders together and clearing checks and
credit card transactions.

52231     Mortgage and Nonmortgage Loan Brokers
          See industry description for 522310 below.

522310 Mortgage and Nonmortgage Loan Brokers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in arranging loans by bringing borrowers and lenders
together on a commission or fee basis.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Lending funds with real estate as collateral--are classified in U.S. Industry 522292, Real Estate Credit; and
      Servicing loans--are classified in Industry 522390, Other Activities Related to Credit Intermediation.

52232     Financial Transactions Processing, Reserve, and Clearinghouse Activities
          See industry description for 522320 below.

522320 Financial Transactions Processing, Reserve, and Clearinghouse Activities

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing one or more of the following: (1) financial
transaction processing (except central bank); (2) reserve and liquidity services (except central bank); and/or (3)
check or other financial instrument clearinghouse services (except central bank).

Illustrative Examples:

Automated clearinghouses, bank or check (except central bank)
Credit card processing services
Check clearing services (except central bank)
Electronic funds transfer services

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in nonfinancial data and electronic transaction processing are classified
          in Industry 518210, Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services; and
      Establishments of the central bank primarily engaged in check clearing and other financial transaction
          processing are classified in Industry 521110, Monetary Authorities-Central Bank.

52239     Other Activities Related to Credit Intermediation
          See industry description for 522390 below.

522390 Other Activities Related to Credit Intermediation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in facilitating credit intermediation (except mortgage
and loan brokerage; and financial transactions processing, reserve, and clearinghouse activities).

Illustrative Examples:

Check cashing services
Money order issuance services
Loan servicing
Travelers' check issuance services
Money transmission services
Payday lending services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Arranging loans for others on a commission or fee basis--are classified in Industry 522310, Mortgage and
          Nonmortgage Loan Brokers;
      Providing financial transactions processing, reserve, and clearinghouse activities--are classified in Industry
          522320, Financial Transactions Processing, Reserve, and Clearinghouse Activities;
      Foreign currency exchange dealing--are classified in Industry 523130, Commodity Contracts Dealing; and
      Providing escrow services (except real estate)--are classified in U.S. Industry 523991, Trust, Fiduciary, and
          Custody Activities.

523       Securities, Commodity Contracts, and Other Financial Investments and Related Activities           T



  Industries in the Securities, Commodity Contracts, and Other Financial Investments and Related Activities
subsector group establishments that are primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) underwriting securities issues
and/or making markets for securities and commodities; (2) acting as agents (i.e., brokers) between buyers and sellers
of securities and commodities; (3) providing securities and commodity exchange services; and (4) providing other
services, such as managing portfolios of assets; providing investment advice; and trust, fiduciary, and custody
services.

5231      Securities and Commodity Contracts Intermediation and Brokerage           T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in putting capital at risk in the process of
underwriting securities issues or in making markets for securities and commodities; and those acting as agents
and/or brokers between buyers and sellers of securities and commodities, usually charging a commission.

52311     Investment Banking and Securities Dealing
          See industry description for 523110 below.

523110 Investment Banking and Securities Dealing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in underwriting, originating, and/or maintaining
markets for issues of securities. Investment bankers act as principals (i.e., investors who buy or sell on their own
account) in firm commitment transactions or act as agents in best effort and standby commitments. This industry
also includes establishments acting as principals in buying or selling securities generally on a spread basis, such as
securities dealers or stock option dealers.

Illustrative Examples:

Bond dealing (i.e., acting as a principal in dealing securities to investors)
Stock option dealing
Securities underwriting

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents (i.e., brokers) in buying or selling securities on a
          commission or transaction fee basis are classified in Industry 523120, Securities Brokerage; and
      Investment clubs or individual investors primarily engaged in buying or selling financial contracts (e.g.,
          securities) on their own account are classified in Industry 523910, Miscellaneous Intermediation.

52312     Securities Brokerage
          See industry description for 523120 below.

523120 Securities Brokerage

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents (i.e., brokers) between buyers and
sellers in buying or selling securities on a commission or transaction fee basis.

Illustrative Examples:

Mutual fund agencies (i.e., brokerages)
Stock brokerages
Securities brokerages

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in investment banking and securities dealing (i.e., buying or selling securities on
their own account) are classified in Industry 523110, Investment Banking and Securities Dealing.

52313     Commodity Contracts Dealing
          See industry description for 523130 below.

523130 Commodity Contracts Dealing

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as principals (i.e., investors who buy or sell
for their own account) in buying or selling spot or futures commodity contracts or options, such as precious metals,
foreign currency, oil, or agricultural products, generally on a spread basis.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Acting as agents (i.e., brokers) in buying or selling spot or future commodity contracts on a commission or
          transaction fee basis--are classified in Industry 523140, Commodity Contracts Brokerage; and
      Buying and selling physical commodities for resale to other than the general public--are classified in Sector
          42, Wholesale Trade.

52314     Commodity Contracts Brokerage
          See industry description for 523140 below.

523140 Commodity Contracts Brokerage

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents (i.e., brokers) in buying or selling
spot or future commodity contracts or options on a commission or transaction fee basis.

Illustrative Examples:

Commodity contracts brokerages
Financial futures brokerages
Commodity futures brokerages

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Acting as principals in buying or selling spot or futures commodity contracts generally on a spread basis--
          are classified in Industry 523130, Commodity Contracts Dealing; and
      Buying and selling physical commodities for resale to other than the general public--are classified in Sector
          42, Wholesale Trade.

5232      Securities and Commodity Exchanges        T



52321     Securities and Commodity Exchanges        T

          See industry description for 523210 below.

523210 Securities and Commodity Exchanges

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in furnishing physical or electronic marketplaces for the
purpose of facilitating the buying and selling of stocks, stock options, bonds, or commodity contracts.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in investment banking, and securities dealing, securities brokering, commodity
contracts dealing, or commodity contracts brokering are classified in Industry Group 5231, Securities and
Commodity Contracts Intermediation and Brokerage.

5239      Other Financial Investment Activities     T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) acting as principals in
buying or selling financial contracts (except investment bankers, securities dealers, and commodity contracts
dealers); (2) acting as agents (i.e., brokers) (except securities brokerages and commodity contracts brokerages) in
buying or selling financial contracts; or (3) providing other investment services (except securities and commodity
exchanges), such as portfolio management; investment advice; and trust, fiduciary, and custody services.

52391     Miscellaneous Intermediation
          See industry description for 523910 below.

523910 Miscellaneous Intermediation

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as principals (except investment bankers,
securities dealers, and commodity contracts dealers) in buying or selling of financial contracts generally on a spread
basis. Principals are investors that buy or sell for their own account.

Illustrative Examples:

Investment clubs
Tax liens dealing (i.e., acting as a principal in dealing tax liens to investors)
Mineral royalties or leases dealing (i.e., acting as a principal in dealing royalties or leases to investors)
Venture capital companies

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in investment banking, securities dealing, securities brokering, commodity
contracts dealing, or commodity contracts brokering are classified in Industry Group 5231, Securities and
Commodity Contracts Intermediation and Brokerage.

52392     Portfolio Management
          See industry description for 523920 below.

523920 Portfolio Management

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in managing the portfolio assets (i.e., funds) of others
on a fee or commission basis. Establishments in this industry have the authority to make investment decisions, and
they derive fees based on the size and/or overall performance of the portfolio.

Illustrative Examples:

Managing trusts
Pension fund managing
Mutual fund managing
Portfolio fund managing

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in investment banking, securities dealing, securities brokering, commodity
contracts dealing, or commodity contracts brokering are classified in Industry Group 5231, Securities and
Commodity Contracts Intermediation and Brokerage.

52393     Investment Advice
          See industry description for 523930 below.

523930 Investment Advice

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing customized investment advice to clients on
a fee basis, but do not have the authority to execute trades. Primary activities performed by establishments in this
industry are providing financial planning advice and investment counseling to meet the goals and needs of specific
clients.

Illustrative Examples:

Financial investment advice services, customized, fees paid by client
Investment advisory services, customized, fees paid by client
Financial planning services, customized, fees paid by client

Cross-References.

      Establishments providing investment advice in conjunction with their primary activity, such as portfolio
          management, or the sale of stocks, bonds, annuities, and real estate, are classified according to their
          primary activity; and
      Establishments known as publishers providing generalized investment information to subscribers are
          classified in Subsector 511, Publishing Industries (except Internet) or Industry 519130, Internet Publishing
          and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals.

52399     All Other Financial Investment Activities

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents or brokers (except securities
brokerages and commodity contracts brokerages) in buying and selling financial contracts providing financial
investment activities (except securities and commodity exchanges, portfolio management, and investment advice).

Illustrative Examples:

Bank trust offices
Fiduciary agencies (except real estate)
Escrow agencies (except real estate)
Stock quotation services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Investment banking, securities dealing, securities brokerage, commodity contracts dealing, or commodity
          contracts brokering--are classified in Industry Group 5231, Securities and Commodity Contracts
          Intermediation and Brokerage;
      Acting as principals (except investment bankers, securities dealers, and commodity contracts dealers) in
          buying or selling financial contracts (except securities or commodity contracts)--are classified in Industry
          52391, Miscellaneous Intermediation;
      Furnishing physical or electronic marketplaces for the purpose of facilitating the buying and selling of
          securities and commodities--are classified in Industry 52321, Securities and Commodity Exchanges;
      Managing the portfolio assets (i.e., funds) of others--are classified in Industry 52392, Portfolio
          Management;

      Providing customized investment advice--are classified in Industry 52393, Investment Advice;
      Awarding grants from trust funds--are classified in Industry 81321, Grantmaking and Giving Services;
      Performing real estate escrow or real estate fiduciary activities--are classified in Industry 53139, Other
          Activities Related to Real Estate; and
      Financial transactions processing, reserve, and clearinghouse activities--are classified in Industry 52232,
          Financial Transactions Processing, Reserve, and Clearinghouse Activities.

523991 Trust, Fiduciary, and Custody Activities

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing trust, fiduciary, and custody services
to others, as instructed, on a fee or contract basis, such as bank trust offices and escrow agencies (except real estate).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Managing the portfolio assets (i.e., funds) of others--are classified in Industry 523920, Portfolio
          Management;
      Performing real estate escrow or real estate fiduciary activities--are classified in Industry 531390, Other
          Activities Related to Real Estate; and
      Awarding grants from trust funds--are classified in Industry 81321, Grantmaking and Giving Services.

523999 Miscellaneous Financial Investment Activities

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents and/or brokers (except
securities brokerages and commodity contracts brokerages) in buying or selling financial contracts and those
providing financial investment services (except securities and commodity exchanges; portfolio management;
investment advice; and trust, fiduciary, and custody services) on a fee or commission basis.

Illustrative Examples:

Exchange clearinghouses, commodities or securities
Stock quotation services
Gas lease brokers' offices

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Investment banking, securities dealing, securities brokering, commodity contracts dealing, or commodity
          contracts brokering--are classified in Industry Group 5231, Securities and Commodity Contracts
          Intermediation and Brokerage;
      Acting as principals (except investment bankers, securities dealers, and commodity contracts dealers) in
          buying or selling financial contracts--are classified in Industry 523910, Miscellaneous Intermediation;
      Furnishing physical or electronic marketplaces for the purpose of facilitating the buying and selling of
          securities and commodities--are classified in Industry 523210, Securities and Commodity Exchanges;
      Managing the portfolio assets (i.e., funds) of others--are classified in Industry 523920, Portfolio
          Management;
      Providing customized investment advice--are classified in Industry 523930, Investment Advice;
      Providing trust, fiduciary, and custody services to others--are classified in U.S. Industry 523991, Trust,
          Fiduciary, and Custody Activities; and
      Financial transactions processing, reserve, and clearinghouse activities--are classified in Industry 522320,
          Financial Transactions Processing, Reserve, and Clearinghouse Activities.

524       Insurance Carriers and Related Activities      T



  Industries in the Insurance Carriers and Related Activities subsector group establishments that are primarily
engaged in one of the following: (1) underwriting (assuming the risk, assigning premiums, and so forth) annuities

and insurance policies or (2) facilitating such underwriting by selling insurance policies, and by providing other
insurance and employee-benefit related services.

5241      Insurance Carriers   T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in underwriting (assuming the risk, assigning
premiums, and so forth) annuities and insurance policies and investing premiums to build up a portfolio of financial
assets to be used against future claims. Direct insurance carriers are establishments that are primarily engaged in
initially underwriting and assuming the risk of annuities and insurance policies. Reinsurance carriers are
establishments that are primarily engaged in assuming all or part of the risk associated with an existing insurance
policy (or set of policies) originally underwritten by another insurance carrier.
 Industries are defined in terms of the type of risk being insured against, such as death, loss of employment because
of age or disability, and/or property damage. Contributions and premiums are set on the basis of actuarial
calculations of probable payouts based on risk factors from experience tables and expected investment returns on
reserves.

52411     Direct Life, Health, and Medical Insurance Carriers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in initially underwriting (i.e., assuming the risk and
assigning premiums) annuities and life insurance policies, disability income insurance policies, accidental death and
dismemberment insurance policies, and health and medical insurance policies.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in reinsuring life insurance policies are classified in Industry 52413,
          Reinsurance Carriers;
      Legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide insurance and employee benefits
          exclusively for the sponsor, firm, or its employees or members are classified in Industry Group 5251,
          Insurance and Employee Benefit Funds; and
      HMO establishments providing health care services are classified in Industry 62149, Other Outpatient Care
          Centers.

524113 Direct Life Insurance Carriers

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in initially underwriting (i.e., assuming the risk
and assigning premiums) annuities and life insurance policies, disability income insurance policies, and accidental
death and dismemberment insurance policies.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in reinsuring life insurance policies, disability income insurance policies,
          and accidental death and dismemberment insurance policies are classified in Industry 524130, Reinsurance
          Carriers; and
      Legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide insurance and employee benefits
          exclusively for the sponsor, firm, or its employees or members are classified in Industry Group 5251,
          Insurance and Employee Benefit Funds.

524114 Direct Health and Medical Insurance Carriers

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in initially underwriting (i.e., assuming the risk
and assigning premiums) health and medical insurance policies. Group hospitalization plans and HMO
establishments (except those providing health care services) that provide health and medical insurance policies
without providing health care services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

      HMO establishments that provide both health care services and underwrite health and medical insurance
          are classified in U.S. Industry 621491, HMO Medical Centers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in reinsuring health insurance policies are classified in Industry 524130,
          Reinsurance Carriers; and
      Legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide health- and welfare-related
          employee benefits exclusively for the sponsor's employees or members are classified in Industry 525120,
          Health and Welfare Funds.

52412     Direct Insurance (except Life, Health, and Medical) Carriers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in initially underwriting (i.e., assuming the risk and
assigning premiums) various types of insurance policies (except life, disability income, accidental death and
dismemberment, and health and medical insurance policies).

Illustrative Examples:

Automobile insurance carriers, direct
Property and casualty insurance carriers, direct
Bank deposit insurance carriers, direct
Title insurance carriers, real estate, direct
Mortgage guaranty insurance carriers, direct
Warranty insurance carriers (e.g., appliance, automobile, homeowners, product), direct

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in reinsuring insurance policies are classified in Industry 52413,
          Reinsurance Carriers;
      Legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide insurance and employee benefits
          exclusively for the sponsor, firm, or its employees or members are classified in Industry Group 5251,
          Insurance and Employee Benefit Funds; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in initially underwriting annuities and life insurance policies, disability
          income insurance policies, accidental death and dismemberment insurance policies, and health and medical
          insurance policies are classified in Industry 52411, Direct Life, Health, and Medical Insurance Carriers.

524126 Direct Property and Casualty Insurance Carriers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in initially underwriting (i.e., assuming the risk
and assigning premiums) insurance policies that protect policyholders against losses that may occur as a result of
property damage or liability.

Illustrative Examples:

Automobile insurance carriers, direct
Malpractice insurance carriers, direct
Fidelity insurance carriers, direct
Mortgage guaranty insurance carriers, direct
Homeowners insurance carriers, direct
Surety insurance carriers, direct
Liability insurance carriers, direct

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in reinsuring property and casualty insurance policies are classified in Industry
524130, Reinsurance Carriers.

524127 Direct Title Insurance Carriers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in initially underwriting (i.e., assuming the risk
and assigning premiums) insurance policies to protect the owners of real estate or real estate creditors against loss
sustained by reason of any title defect to real property.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in reinsuring title insurance policies are classified in Industry 524130,
Reinsurance Carriers.

524128 Other Direct Insurance (except Life, Health, and Medical) Carriers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in initially underwriting (e.g., assuming the risk,
assigning premiums) insurance policies (except life, disability income, accidental death and dismemberment, health
and medical, property and casualty, and title insurance policies).

Illustrative Examples:

Bank deposit insurance carriers, direct
Product warranty insurance carriers, direct
Deposit or share insurance carriers, direct
Warranty insurance carriers (e.g., appliance, automobile, homeowners, product), direct

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Reinsuring insurance policies--are classified in Industry 524130, Reinsurance Carriers;
      Initially underwriting annuities and life insurance policies, disability income insurance policies, and
          accidental death and dismemberment insurance policies--are classified in U.S. Industry 524113, Direct Life
          Insurance Carriers;
      Initially underwriting health and medical insurance policies--are classified in U.S. Industry 524114, Direct
          Health and Medical Insurance Carriers;
      Initially underwriting property and casualty insurance policies--are classified in U.S. Industry 524126,
          Direct Property and Casualty Insurance Carriers; and
      Initially underwriting title insurance policies--are classified in U.S. Industry 524127, Direct Title Insurance
          Carriers.

52413     Reinsurance Carriers
          See industry description for 524130 below.

524130 Reinsurance Carriers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in assuming all or part of the risk associated with
existing insurance policies originally underwritten by other insurance carriers.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Initially underwriting annuities and life insurance policies, disability income insurance policies, accidental
          death and dismemberment insurance policies, and health and medical insurance policies--are classified in
          Industry 52411, Direct Life, Health, and Medical Insurance Carriers; and
      Initially underwriting various types of insurance policies (except life, disability income, accidental death
          and dismemberment, and health and medical insurance policies)--are classified in Industry 52412, Direct
          Insurance (except Life, Health, and Medical) Carriers.

5242      Agencies, Brokerages, and Other Insurance Related Activities      T

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) acting as agents (i.e., brokers) in selling
annuities and insurance policies or (2) providing other employee benefits and insurance related services, such as
claims adjustment and third party administration.

52421     Insurance Agencies and Brokerages
          See industry description for 524210 below.

524210 Insurance Agencies and Brokerages

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents (i.e., brokers) in selling annuities and
insurance policies.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in underwriting annuities and insurance policies are classified in Industry Group
5241, Insurance Carriers.

52429     Other Insurance Related Activities

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing services related to insurance (except
insurance agencies and brokerages).

Illustrative Examples:

Claims adjusting
Insurance plan administrative services
Insurance adjusting

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Managing the portfolio assets (i.e., funds) of others--are classified in Industry 52392, Portfolio
          Management;
      Acting as agents (i.e., brokers) in selling annuities and insurance policies--are classified in Industry 52421,
          Insurance Agencies and Brokerages; and
      Providing actuarial consulting services--are classified in Industry 54161, Management Consulting Services.

524291 Claims Adjusting

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in investigating, appraising, and settling insurance
claims.

524292 Third Party Administration of Insurance and Pension Funds

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing third party administration services of
insurance and pension funds, such as claims processing and other administrative services to insurance carriers,
employee-benefit plans, and self-insurance funds.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Managing the portfolio assets (i.e., funds) of others--are classified in Industry 523920, Portfolio
          Management; and
      Providing actuarial consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541612, Human Resources
          Consulting Services.

524298 All Other Insurance Related Activities

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing insurance services on a contract or fee
basis (except insurance agencies and brokerages, claims adjusting, and third party administration). Insurance
advisory services and insurance ratemaking services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing actuarial consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541612, Human Resources
          Consulting Services;
      Acting as agents (i.e., brokers) in selling annuities and insurance policies--are classified in Industry
          524210, Insurance Agencies and Brokerages;
      Insurance claims adjusting--are classified in U.S. Industry 524291, Claims Adjusting; and
      Third party administration services of insurance and pension funds--are classified in U.S. Industry 524292,
          Third Party Administration of Insurance and Pension Funds.

525       Funds, Trusts, and Other Financial Vehicles

  Industries in the Funds, Trusts, and Other Financial Vehicles subsector are comprised of legal entities (i.e., funds,
plans, and/or programs) organized to pool securities or other assets on behalf of shareholders or beneficiaries of
employee benefit or other trust funds. The portfolios are customized to achieve specific investment characteristics,
such as diversification, risk, rate of return, and price volatility. These entities earn interest, dividends, and other
investment income, but have little or no employment and no revenue from the sale of services. Establishments with
employees devoted to the management of funds are classified in Industry Group 5239, Other Financial Investment
Activities.
  Establishments primarily engaged in holding the securities of (or other equity interests in) other firms are
classified in Sector 55, Management of Companies and Enterprises. Equity Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs)
that are primarily engaged in leasing buildings, dwellings, or other real estate property to others are classified in
Subsector 531, Real Estate.

5251      Insurance and Employee Benefit Funds

  This industry group comprises legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide insurance
and employee benefits exclusively for the sponsor, firm, or its employees or members.

52511     Pension Funds
          See industry description for 525110 below.

525110 Pension Funds

  This industry comprises legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide retirement income
benefits exclusively for the sponsor's employees or members.

Illustrative Examples:

Employee benefit plans
Retirement plans
Pension funds and plans

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Managing portfolios of pension funds--are classified in Industry 523920, Portfolio Management; and
      Initially underwriting annuities--are classified in U.S. Industry 524113, Direct Life Insurance Carriers.

52512     Health and Welfare Funds
          See industry description for 525120 below.

525120 Health and Welfare Funds

  This industry comprises legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide medical, surgical,
hospital, vacation, training, and other health- and welfare-related employee benefits exclusively for the sponsor's
employees or members.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Managing portfolios of health and welfare funds--are classified in Industry 523920, Portfolio Management;
          and
      Third party claims administration of health and welfare plans--are classified in U.S. Industry 524292, Third
          Party Administration of Insurance and Pension Funds.

52519     Other Insurance Funds
          See industry description for 525190 below.

525190 Other Insurance Funds

  This industry comprises legal entities (i.e., funds (except pension, and health- and welfare-related employee
benefit funds)) organized to provide insurance exclusively for the sponsor, firm, or its employees or members. Self-
insurance funds (except employee benefit funds) and workers' compensation insurance funds are included in this
industry.

Cross-References.

      Legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide retirement income benefits
          exclusively for the sponsor's employees or members are classified in Industry 525110, Pension Funds;
      Legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and/or programs) organized to provide health- and welfare-related
          employee benefits exclusively for the sponsor's employees or members are classified in Industry 525120,
          Health and Welfare Funds;
      Establishments primarily engaged in managing portfolios of insurance funds are classified in Industry
          523920, Portfolio Management;
      Establishments primarily engaged in third party claims administration of insurance, and other employee
          benefit funds are classified in U.S. Industry 524292, Third Party Administration of Insurance and Pension
          Funds; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing insurance on a fee or contract basis are classified in Industry
          Group 5241, Insurance Carriers.

5259      Other Investment Pools and Funds

  This industry group comprises legal entities (i.e., investment pools and/or funds) organized to pool securities or
other assets (except insurance and employee-benefit funds) on behalf of shareholders, unitholders, or beneficiaries.

52591     Open-End Investment Funds
          See industry description for 525910 below.

525910 Open-End Investment Funds

  This industry comprises legal entities (i.e., open-end investment funds) organized to pool assets that consist of
securities or other financial instruments. Shares in these pools are offered to the public in an initial offering with
additional shares offered continuously and perpetually and redeemed at a specific price determined by the net asset
value.

Illustrative Examples:

Investment funds, open-ended
Money market mutual funds, open-ended

52592     Trusts, Estates, and Agency Accounts
          See industry description for 525920 below.

525920 Trusts, Estates, and Agency Accounts

  This industry comprises legal entities, trusts, estates, or agency accounts, administered on behalf of the
beneficiaries under the terms of a trust agreement, will, or agency agreement.

Illustrative Examples:

Bankruptcy estates
Private estates (i.e., administering on behalf of beneficiaries)
Personal investment trusts
Testamentary trusts

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Managing portfolios of trusts--are classified in Industry 523920, Portfolio Management;
      Administering personal estates--are classified in U.S. Industry 523991, Trust, Fiduciary, and Custody
          Activities; and
      Operating businesses of trusts and bankruptcy estates--are classified according to the kind of business
          operated.

52599     Other Financial Vehicles
          See industry description for 525990 below.

525990 Other Financial Vehicles

  This industry comprises legal entities (i.e., funds (except insurance and employee benefit funds; open-end
investment funds; trusts, estates, and agency accounts)). Included in this industry are mortgage Real Estate
Investment Trusts (REITs).

Illustrative Examples:

Closed-end investment funds
Special purpose vehicles
Collateralized Mortgage Obligations (CMOs)
Unit investment trust funds
Face-amount certificate funds
Mortgage real estate investment trusts (REITs)
Real Estate Mortgage Investment Conduits (REMICs)

Cross-References.

      Legal entities (i.e., funds, plans, and programs) that provide insurance and employee benefits exclusively
          for the sponsor, firm, or its employees or members are classified in Industry Group 5251, Insurance and
          Employee Benefit Funds;
      Legal entities (i.e., open-end investment funds) organized to pool assets that consist of securities or other
          financial instruments, where the pools are offered to the public in an initial offering with additional shares
          offered continuously and perpetually at a specific price determined by the net asset value, are classified in
          Industry 525910, Open-End Investment Funds;

 Legal entities (i.e., trusts, estates, or agency accounts) administered on behalf of the beneficiaries under the
  terms of a trust agreement, will, or agency agreement are classified in Industry 525920, Trusts, Estates, and
  Agency Accounts; and
 Equity Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) that are primarily engaged in leasing buildings, dwellings, or
  other real estate property to others are classified in Industry Group 5311, Lessors of Real Estate based on
  primary type of real estate property leased.

                        Sector 53--Real Estate and Rental and Leasing                             T


                                               The Sector as a Whole

  The Real Estate and Rental and Leasing sector comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting, leasing, or
otherwise allowing the use of tangible or intangible assets, and establishments providing related services. The major
portion of this sector comprises establishments that rent, lease, or otherwise allow the use of their own assets by
others. The assets may be tangible, as is the case of real estate and equipment, or intangible, as is the case with
patents and trademarks.
  This sector also includes establishments primarily engaged in managing real estate for others, selling, renting
and/or buying real estate for others, and appraising real estate. These activities are closely related to this sector's
main activity, and it was felt that from a production basis they would best be included here. In addition, a
substantial proportion of property management is self-performed by lessors.
  The main components of this sector are the real estate lessors industries (including equity real estate investment
trusts (REITs)); equipment lessors industries (including motor vehicles, computers, and consumer goods); and
lessors of nonfinancial intangible assets (except copyrighted works).
  Excluded from this sector are establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing equipment with operators.
Establishments renting or leasing equipment with operators are classified in various subsectors of NAICS depending
on the nature of the services provided (e.g., transportation, construction, agriculture). These activities are excluded
from this sector because the client is paying for the expertise and knowledge of the equipment operator, in addition
to the rental of the equipment. In many cases, such as the rental of heavy construction equipment, the operator is
essential to operate the equipment.

531       Real Estate  T



  Industries in the Real Estate subsector group establishments that are primarily engaged in renting or leasing real
estate to others; managing real estate for others; selling, buying, or renting real estate for others; and providing other
real estate related services, such as appraisal services.
  This subsector includes equity Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) that are primarily engaged in leasing
buildings, dwellings, or other real estate property to others. Mortgage REITs are classified in Subsector 525, Funds,
Trusts, and Other Financial Vehicles.
  Establishments primarily engaged in subdividing and developing unimproved real estate and constructing
buildings for sale are classified in Subsector 236, Construction of Buildings. Establishments primarily engaged in
subdividing and improving raw land for subsequent sale to builders are classified in Subsector 237, Heavy and Civil
Engineering Construction.

5311      Lessors of Real Estate   T



53111     Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings
          See industry description for 531110 below.

531110 Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as lessors of buildings used as residences or
dwellings, such as single-family homes, apartment buildings, and town homes. Included in this industry are owner-
lessors and establishments renting real estate and then acting as lessors in subleasing it to others. The establishments
in this industry may manage the property themselves or have another establishment manage it for them.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in managing residential real estate for others are classified in U.S. Industry
531311, Residential Property Managers.

53112     Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses)
          See industry description for 531120 below.

531120 Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses)

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as lessors of buildings (except
miniwarehouses and self-storage units) that are not used as residences or dwellings. Included in this industry are:
(1) owner-lessors of nonresidential buildings; (2) establishments renting real estate and then acting as lessors in
subleasing it to others; and (3) establishments providing full service office space, whether on a lease or service
contract basis. The establishments in this industry may manage the property themselves or have another
establishment manage it for them.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Acting as lessors of buildings used as residences or dwellings--are classified in Industry 531110, Lessors of
         Residential Buildings and Dwellings;
     Renting or leasing space for self-storage--are classified in Industry 531130, Lessors of Miniwarehouses and
         Self-Storage Units;
     Managing nonresidential real estate for others--are classified in U.S. Industry 531312, Nonresidential
         Property Managers;
     Providing a range of office support services, such as mailbox rental, other postal and mailing (except direct
         mail advertising) services, document copying services, facsimile services, word processing services or on-
         site personal computer rental, that are not providing office space--are classified in Industry 56143, Business
         Service Centers;
     Managing and operating arenas, stadiums, theaters, or other related facilities and promoting and organizing
         performing arts productions, sports events, and similar events at those facilities--are classified in Industry
         711310, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events with Facilities; and
     Operating public and contract general merchandise warehousing and storage facilities--are classified in
         Industry 493110, General Warehousing and Storage.

53113    Lessors of Miniwarehouses and Self-Storage Units
         See industry description for 531130 below.

531130 Lessors of Miniwarehouses and Self-Storage Units

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing space for self-storage. These
establishments provide secure space (i.e., rooms, compartments, lockers, containers, or outdoor space) where clients
can store and retrieve their goods.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Operating public and contract general merchandise warehousing and storage facilities--are classified in
         Industry 493110, General Warehousing and Storage; and
     Operating coin-operated lockers--are classified in Industry 812990, All Other Personal Services.

53119    Lessors of Other Real Estate Property
         See industry description for 531190 below.

531190 Lessors of Other Real Estate Property

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as lessors of real estate (except buildings),
such as manufactured home (i.e., mobile home) sites, vacant lots, and grazing land.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Acting as lessors of buildings used as residences or dwellings including manufactured (mobile) homes on-
         site--are classified in Industry 531110, Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings;

      Acting as lessors of buildings (except miniwarehouses and self-storage units) that are not used as
          residences or dwellings--are classified in Industry 531120, Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except
          Miniwarehouses); and
      Renting or leasing space for self-storage--are classified in Industry 531130, Lessors of Miniwarehouses and
          Self-Storage Units.

5312      Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers     T



53121     Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers     T

          See industry description for 531210 below.

531210 Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents and/or brokers in one or more of the
following: (1) selling real estate for others; (2) buying real estate for others; and (3) renting real estate for others.

5313      Activities Related to Real Estate   T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing real estate services (except lessors of
real estate and offices of real estate agents and brokers). Included in this industry group are establishments primarily
engaged in activities, such as managing real estate for others and appraising real estate.

53131     Real Estate Property Managers

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in managing real property for others. Management
includes ensuring that various activities associated with the overall operation of the property are performed, such as
collecting rents, and overseeing other services (e.g., maintenance, security, trash removal.)

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in acting as lessors of real estate are classified in Industry Group 5311,
          Lessors of Real Estate; and
      Establishments formed on behalf of individual condominium owners or homeowners are classified in
          Industry 81399, Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political
          Organizations).

531311 Residential Property Managers

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in managing residential real estate for others.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in managing nonresidential real estate for others are classified in U.S.
          Industry 531312, Nonresidential Property Managers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in acting as lessors of buildings used as residences or dwellings are
          classified in Industry 531110, Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings; and
      Establishments formed on behalf of individual residential condominium owners or homeowners are
          classified in Industry 813990, Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and
          Political Organizations).

531312 Nonresidential Property Managers

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in managing nonresidential real estate for others.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in managing residential real estate for others are classified in U.S.
          Industry 531311, Residential Property Managers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in acting as lessors of buildings (except miniwarehouses and self storage
          units) that are not used as residences or dwellings are classified in Industry 531120, Lessors of
          Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses);
      Establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing space for self-storage are classified in Industry
          531130, Lessors of Miniwarehouses and Self-Storage Units; and
      Establishments formed on behalf of individual nonresidential condominium owners are classified in
          Industry 813990, Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political
          Organizations).

53132     Offices of Real Estate Appraisers
          See industry description for 531320 below.

531320 Offices of Real Estate Appraisers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in estimating the fair market value of real estate.

53139     Other Activities Related to Real Estate
          See industry description for 531390 below.

531390 Other Activities Related to Real Estate

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing real estate related services (except lessors
of real estate, offices of real estate agents and brokers, real estate property managers, and offices of real estate
appraisers).

Illustrative Examples:

Real estate escrow agencies
Real estate listing services
Real estate fiduciaries' offices

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Acting as lessors of real estate--are classified in Industry Group 5311, Lessors of Real Estate;
      Selling, buying, and/or renting real estate for others--are classified in Industry 531210, Offices of Real
          Estate Agents and Brokers;
      Managing real estate for others--are classified in Industry 53131, Real Estate Property Managers;
      Estimating fair market value of real estate--are classified in Industry 531320, Offices of Real Estate
          Appraisers; and
      Researching public land records for ownership of titles and/or conveying real estate titles--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 541191, Title Abstract and Settlement Offices.

532       Rental and Leasing Services     T



  Industries in the Rental and Leasing Services subsector include establishments that provide a wide array of
tangible goods, such as automobiles, computers, consumer goods, and industrial machinery and equipment, to
customers in return for a periodic rental or lease payment.
  The subsector includes two main types of establishments: (1) those that are engaged in renting consumer goods
and equipment and (2) those that are engaged in leasing machinery and equipment often used for business
operations. The first type typically operates from a retail-like or store-front facility and maintains inventories of
goods that are rented for short periods of time. The latter type typically does not operate from retail-like locations or
maintain inventories, and offers longer term leases. These establishments work directly with clients to enable them

to acquire the use of equipment on a lease basis, or they work with equipment vendors or dealers to support the
marketing of equipment to their customers under lease arrangements. Equipment lessors generally structure lease
contracts to meet the specialized needs of their clients and use their remarketing expertise to find other users for
previously leased equipment. Establishments that provide operating and capital (i.e., finance) leases are included in
this subsector.
  Establishments primarily engaged in leasing in combination with providing loans are classified in Sector 52,
Finance and Insurance. Establishments primarily engaged in leasing real property are classified in Subsector 531,
Real Estate. Those establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing equipment with operators are classified in
various subsectors of NAICS depending on the nature of the services provided (e.g., Transportation, Construction,
Agriculture). These activities are excluded from this subsector since the client is paying for the expertise and
knowledge of the equipment operator, in addition to the rental of the equipment. In many cases, such as the rental of
heavy construction equipment, the operator is essential to operate the equipment. Likewise, since the provision of
crop harvesting services includes both the equipment and operator, it is included in the agriculture subsector. The
rental or leasing of copyrighted works is classified in Sector 51, Information, and the rental or leasing of assets, such
as patents, trademarks, and/or licensing agreements is classified in Subsector 533, Lessors of Nonfinancial
Intangible Assets (except Copyrighted Works).

5321     Automotive Equipment Rental and Leasing         T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing the following types of
vehicles: passenger cars and trucks without drivers, and utility trailers. These establishments generally operate
from a retail-like facility. Some establishments offer only short-term rental, others only longer-term leases, and
some provide both types of services.

53211    Passenger Car Rental and Leasing      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing passenger cars without drivers.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting or leasing passenger cars with drivers (e.g., limousines, hearses, taxis)--are classified in Industry
         Group 4853, Taxi and Limousine Service;
      Retailing passenger cars through sales or lease arrangements--are classified in Industry Group 4411,
         Automobile Dealers; and
      Leasing passenger cars in combination with providing loans to buyers of such vehicles--are classified in
         Sector 52, Finance and Insurance.

532111 Passenger Car Rental

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting passenger cars without drivers, generally
for short periods of time.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Leasing passenger cars without drivers, generally for long periods of time--are classified in U.S. Industry
         532112, Passenger Car Leasing; and
      Renting or leasing passenger cars with drivers (e.g., limousines, hearses, taxis)--are classified in Industry
         Group 4853, Taxi and Limousine Service.

532112 Passenger Car Leasing

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in leasing passenger cars without drivers, generally
for long periods of time.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting passenger cars without drivers, generally for short periods of time--are classified in U.S. Industry
         532111, Passenger Car Rental;
      Renting or leasing passenger cars with drivers (e.g., limousines, hearses, taxis)--are classified in Industry
         Group 4853, Taxi and Limousine Service;
      Retailing passenger cars through sales or lease arrangements--are classified in Industry Group 4411,
         Automobile Dealers; and
      Leasing passenger cars in combination with providing loans to buyers of such vehicles--are classified in
         Sector 52, Finance and Insurance.

53212    Truck, Utility Trailer, and RV (Recreational Vehicle) Rental and Leasing           T

         See industry description for 532120 below.

532120 Truck, Utility Trailer, and RV (Recreational Vehicle) Rental and Leasing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing, without drivers, one or more of the
following: trucks, truck tractors, buses, semitrailers, utility trailers, or RVs (recreational vehicles).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting recreational goods, such as pleasure boats, canoes, motorcycles, mopeds, or bicycles--are classified
         in Industry 53229, Other Consumer Goods Rental;
      Renting or leasing farm tractors, industrial equipment, and industrial trucks, such as forklifts and other
         materials handling equipment--are classified in Industry 532490, Other Commercial and Industrial
         Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing;
      Renting or leasing mobile home sites--are classified in Industry 531190, Lessors of Other Real Estate
         Property;
      Retailing vehicles commonly referred to as RVs through sales or lease arrangements--are classified in
         Industry 441210, Recreational Vehicle Dealers; and
      Leasing trucks, utility trailers, and RVs in combination with providing loans to buyers of such vehicles--are
         classified in Sector 52, Finance and Insurance.

5322     Consumer Goods Rental      T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting personal and household-type goods.
Establishments classified in this industry group generally provide short-term rental although in some instances, the
goods may be leased for longer periods of time. These establishments often operate from a retail-like or store-front
facility.

53221    Consumer Electronics and Appliances Rental          T

         See industry description for 532210 below.

532210 Consumer Electronics and Appliances Rental

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting consumer electronics equipment and
appliances, such as televisions, stereos, and refrigerators. Included in this industry are appliance rental centers.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting or leasing computers--are classified in Industry 532420, Office Machinery and Equipment Rental
         and Leasing; and
      Renting a range of consumer, commercial, and industrial equipment, such as lawn and garden equipment,
         home repair tools, and party and banquet equipment--are classified in Industry 532310, General Rental
         Centers.

53222    Formal Wear and Costume Rental        T

          See industry description for 532220 below.

532220 Formal Wear and Costume Rental

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting clothing, such as formal wear, costumes (e.g.,
theatrical), or other clothing (except laundered uniforms and work apparel).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in laundering and supplying uniforms and other work apparel are classified in
Industry 81233, Linen and Uniform Supply.

53223     Video Tape and Disc Rental     T

          See industry description for 532230 below.

532230 Video Tape and Disc Rental

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting prerecorded video tapes and discs for home
electronic equipment.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Theatrical distribution of motion pictures and videos--are classified in Subsector 512, Motion Picture and
          Sound Recording Industries;
      Renting video recorders and players--are classified in Industry 532210, Consumer Electronics and
          Appliances Rental; and
      Retailing prerecorded video tapes and discs--are classified in U.S. Industry 443142, Electronics Stores.

53229     Other Consumer Goods Rental       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting consumer goods (except consumer
electronics and appliances, formal wear and costumes, and prerecorded video tapes).

Illustrative Examples:

Furniture rental centers
Sporting goods rental
Party rental supply centers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting consumer electronics and appliances--are classified in Industry 53221, Consumer Electronics and
          Appliances Rental;
      Renting formal wear and costumes--are classified in Industry 53222, Formal Wear and Costume Rental;
      Renting prerecorded video tapes and discs--are classified in Industry 53223, Video Tape and Disc Rental;
      Renting a general line of products, such as lawn and garden equipment, home repair tools, and party and
          banquet equipment--are classified in Industry 53231, General Rental Centers;
      Renting medical equipment (except home health equipment), such as electromedical and electrotherapeutic
          apparatus--are classified in Industry 53249, Other Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment
          Rental and Leasing;
      Providing home health care services and home health equipment--are classified in Industry 62161, Home
          Health Care Services; and
      Retailing and renting musical instruments--are classified in Industry 45114, Musical Instrument and
          Supplies Stores.

532291 Home Health Equipment Rental

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting home-type health and invalid
equipment, such as wheel chairs, hospital beds, oxygen tanks, walkers, and crutches.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting medical equipment (except home health equipment), such as electromedical and electrotherapeutic
         apparatus--are classified in Industry 532490, Other Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment
         Rental and Leasing; and
      Providing home health care services and home health equipment--are classified in Industry 621610, Home
         Health Care Services.

532292 Recreational Goods Rental

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting recreational goods, such as bicycles,
canoes, motorcycles, skis, sailboats, beach chairs, and beach umbrellas.

532299 All Other Consumer Goods Rental

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting consumer goods and products (except
consumer electronics and appliances; formal wear and costumes; prerecorded video tapes and discs for home
electronic equipment; home health furniture and equipment; and recreational goods). Included in this industry are
furniture rental centers and party rental supply centers.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting consumer electronics and appliances--are classified in Industry 532210, Consumer Electronics and
         Appliances Rental;
      Renting formal wear and costumes--are classified in Industry 532220, Formal Wear and Costume Rental;
      Renting video tapes and discs--are classified in Industry 532230, Video Tape and Disc Rental;
      Renting home health furniture and equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 532291, Home Health
         Equipment Rental;
      Renting recreational goods--are classified in U.S. Industry 532292, Recreational Goods Rental;
      Retailing and renting musical instruments--are classified in Industry 451140, Musical Instrument and
         Supplies Stores; and
      Renting a range of consumer, commercial, and industrial equipment, such as lawn and garden equipment,
         home repair tools, and party and banquet equipment--are classified in Industry 532310, General Rental
         Centers.

5323     General Rental Centers     T



53231    General Rental Centers     T

         See industry description for 532310 below.

532310 General Rental Centers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting a range of consumer, commercial, and
industrial equipment. Establishments in this industry typically operate from conveniently located facilities where
they maintain inventories of goods and equipment that they rent for short periods of time. The type of equipment
that establishments in this industry provide often includes, but is not limited to: audio visual equipment, contractors'
and builders' tools and equipment, home repair tools, lawn and garden equipment, moving equipment and supplies,
and party and banquet equipment and supplies.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Renting trucks and trailers without drivers--are classified in Industry 532120, Truck, Utility Trailer, and
         RV (Recreational Vehicle) Rental and Leasing;
     Renting party and banquet equipment--are classified in Industry 53229, Other Consumer Goods Rental;
     Renting heavy construction equipment without operators--are classified in U.S. Industry 532412,
         Construction, Mining, and Forestry Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing; and
     Renting specialized types of commercial and industrial equipment, such as garden tractors or public address
         systems--are classified in Industry 532490, Other Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment
         Rental and Leasing.

5324     Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing               T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing commercial-type and
industrial-type machinery and equipment. The types of establishments included in this industry group are generally
involved in providing capital or investment-type equipment that clients use in their business operations. These
establishments typically cater to a business clientele and do not generally operate a retail-like or store-front facility.

53241    Construction, Transportation, Mining, and Forestry Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing                    T



 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing one or more of the following
without operators: heavy construction, off-highway transportation, mining, and forestry machinery and equipment.
Establishments in this industry may rent or lease products, such as aircraft, railroad cars, steamships, tugboats,
bulldozers, earthmoving equipment, well-drilling machinery and equipment, or cranes.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Renting or leasing automobiles or trucks without operators--are classified in Industry Group 5321,
         Automotive Equipment Rental and Leasing;
     Renting or leasing air, rail, highway, and water transportation equipment with operators--are classified in
         Sector 48-49, Transportation and Warehousing, based on their primary activity;
     Renting or leasing heavy construction equipment with operators--are classified in Industry Group 2389,
         Other Specialty Trade Contractors;
     Renting or leasing heavy equipment for mining with operators--are classified in Industry 21311, Support
         Activities for Mining;
     Renting or leasing heavy equipment for forestry with operators--are classified in Industry 11531, Support
         Activities for Forestry; and
     Leasing heavy equipment in combination with providing loans to buyers of such equipment--are classified
         in Sector 52, Finance and Insurance.

532411 Commercial Air, Rail, and Water Transportation Equipment Rental and Leasing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing off-highway transportation
equipment without operators, such as aircraft, railroad cars, steamships, or tugboats.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Renting or leasing air, rail, highway, and water transportation equipment with operators--are classified in
         Sector 48-49, Transportation and Warehousing, based on their primary activity;
     Renting pleasure boats--are classified in U.S. Industry 532292, Recreational Goods Rental; and
     Renting or leasing automobiles or trucks without drivers--are classified in Industry Group 5321,
         Automotive Equipment Rental and Leasing.

532412 Construction, Mining, and Forestry Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing heavy equipment without
operators that may be used for construction, mining, or forestry, such as bulldozers, earthmoving equipment, well-
drilling machinery and equipment, or cranes.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting or leasing of cranes with operators--are classified in Industry 238990, All Other Specialty Trade
         Contractors;
      Renting or leasing of construction equipment with operators (except cranes)--are classified in 238910, Site
         Preparation Contractors;
      Renting or leasing heavy equipment for mining with operators--are classified in Industry 21311, Support
         Activities for Mining;
      Renting or leasing heavy equipment for forestry with operators--are classified in Industry 115310, Support
         Activities for Forestry; and
      Leasing heavy equipment in combination with providing loans to buyers of such equipment--are classified
         in Sector 52, Finance and Insurance.

53242    Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing            T

         See industry description for 532420 below.

532420 Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing office machinery and equipment,
such as computers, office furniture, duplicating machines (i.e., copiers), or facsimile machines.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting or leasing residential furniture--are classified in Industry 53229, Other Consumer Goods Rental;
         and
      Leasing office machinery and equipment in combination with providing loans to buyers of such equipment-
         -are classified in Sector 52, Finance and Insurance.

53249    Other Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing                  T

         See industry description for 532490 below.

532490 Other Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing nonconsumer-type machinery and
equipment (except heavy construction, transportation, mining, and forestry machinery and equipment without
operators; and office machinery and equipment). Establishments in this industry rent or lease products, such as
manufacturing equipment; metalworking, telecommunications, motion picture, theatrical machinery and equipment,
or service industry machinery; institutional (i.e., public building) furniture, such as furniture for schools, theaters, or
buildings; or agricultural equipment without operators.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting or leasing heavy equipment without operators--are classified in Industry 53241, Construction,
         Transportation, Mining, and Forestry Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing;
      Renting or leasing office machinery and equipment--are classified in Industry 532420, Office Machinery
         and Equipment Rental and Leasing;
      Renting or leasing agricultural machinery and equipment with operators--are classified in Subsector 115,
         Support Activities for Agriculture and Forestry;
      Renting home furniture or medical equipment for home use--are classified in Industry 53229, Other
         Consumer Goods Rental; and

     Leasing nonconsumer machinery and equipment in combination with providing loans to buyers of such
          equipment--are classified in Sector 52, Finance and Insurance.

533       Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible Assets (except Copyrighted Works)       T



  Industries in the Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible Assets (except Copyrighted Works) subsector include
establishments that are primarily engaged in assigning rights to assets, such as patents, trademarks, brand names,
and/or franchise agreements for which a royalty payment or licensing fee is paid to the asset holder. Establishments
in this subsector own the patents, trademarks, and/or franchise agreements that they allow others to use or reproduce
for a fee and may or may not have created those assets.
  Establishments that allow franchisees the use of the franchise name, contingent on the franchisee buying products
or services from the franchisor, are classified elsewhere.
  Excluded from this subsector are establishments primarily engaged in leasing real property and establishments
primarily engaged in leasing tangible assets, such as automobiles, computers, consumer goods, and industrial
machinery and equipment. These establishments are classified in Subsector 531, Real Estate and Subsector 532,
Rental and Leasing Services, respectively.

5331      Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible Assets (except Copyrighted Works)       T



53311     Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible Assets (except Copyrighted Works)       T

          See industry description for 533110 below.

533110 Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible Assets (except Copyrighted Works)

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in assigning rights to assets, such as patents,
trademarks, brand names, and/or franchise agreements for which a royalty payment or licensing fee is paid to the
asset holder.

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in producing, reproducing, and/or distributing copyrighted works are
          classified in Sector 51, Information;
     Independent artists, writers, and performers primarily engaged in creating copyrighted works are classified
          in Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers;
     Establishments primarily engaged in leasing real property are classified in Subsector 531, Real Estate;
     Establishments primarily engaged in leasing tangible assets, such as automobiles, computers, consumer
          goods, and industrial machinery and equipment, are classified in Subsector 532, Rental and Leasing
          Services; and
     Establishments that allow franchisees the use of the franchise name, contingent on the franchisee buying
          products or services from the franchisor are classified elsewhere.

               Sector 54--Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services                               T


                                                The Sector as a Whole

  The Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services sector comprises establishments that specialize in performing
professional, scientific, and technical activities for others. These activities require a high degree of expertise and
training. The establishments in this sector specialize according to expertise and provide these services to clients in a
variety of industries and, in some cases, to households. Activities performed include: legal advice and
representation; accounting, bookkeeping, and payroll services; architectural, engineering, and specialized design
services; computer services; consulting services; research services; advertising services; photographic services;
translation and interpretation services; veterinary services; and other professional, scientific, and technical services.
  This sector excludes establishments primarily engaged in providing a range of day-to-day office administrative
services, such as financial planning, billing and recordkeeping, personnel, and physical distribution and logistics.
These establishments are classified in Sector 56, Administrative and Support and Waste Management and
Remediation Services.

541       Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services    T



  Industries in the Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services subsector group establishments engaged in
processes where human capital is the major input. These establishments make available the knowledge and skills of
their employees, often on an assignment basis, where an individual or team is responsible for the delivery of services
to the client. The individual industries of this subsector are defined on the basis of the particular expertise and
training of the services provider.
  The distinguishing feature of the Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services subsector is the fact that most of
the industries grouped in it have production processes that are almost wholly dependent on worker skills. In most of
these industries, equipment and materials are not of major importance, unlike health care, for example, where "high
tech" machines and materials are important collaborating inputs to labor skills in the production of health care.
Thus, the establishments classified in this subsector sell expertise. Much of the expertise requires degrees, though
not in every case.

5411      Legal Services  T



54111     Offices of Lawyers   T

          See industry description for 541110 below.

541110 Offices of Lawyers

  This industry comprises offices of legal practitioners known as lawyers or attorneys (i.e., counselors-at-law)
primarily engaged in the practice of law. Establishments in this industry may provide expertise in a range or in
specific areas of law, such as criminal law, corporate law, family and estate law, patent law, real estate law, or tax
law.

Cross-References.

  Establishments of legal practitioners (except lawyers or attorneys) primarily engaged in providing specialized
legal or paralegal services are classified in Industry 54119, Other Legal Services.

54112     Offices of Notaries T

          See industry description for 541120 below.

541120 Offices of Notaries

  This industry comprises establishments (except offices of lawyers and attorneys) primarily engaged in drafting,
approving, and executing legal documents, such as real estate transactions, wills, and contracts; and in receiving,
indexing, and storing such documents.

Cross-References.

         Establishments of lawyers and attorneys primarily engaged in the practice of law are classified in Industry
          541110, Offices of Lawyers; and
         Establishments of notaries public engaged in activities, such as administering oaths and taking affidavits
          and depositions, witnessing and certifying signatures on documents, but not empowered to draw and
          approve legal documents and contracts, are classified in U.S. Industry 541199, All Other Legal Services.

54119     Other Legal Services    T



  This industry comprises establishments of legal practitioners (except lawyers and attorneys) primarily engaged in
providing specialized legal or paralegal services.

Illustrative Examples:

Notary public services
Process serving services
Paralegal services
Real estate settlement offices
Patent agent services (i.e., patent filing and searching services)
Real estate title abstract companies

Cross-References.

         Establishments of lawyers and attorneys primarily engaged in the practice of law are classified in Industry
          54111, Offices of Lawyers; and
         Establishments (except offices of lawyers, attorneys, and paralegals) primarily engaged in providing
          arbitration and conciliation services are classified in Industry 54199, All Other Professional, Scientific, and
          Technical Services.

541191 Title Abstract and Settlement Offices

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except offices of lawyers and attorneys) primarily engaged in one or
more of the following activities: (1) researching public land records to gather information relating to real estate
titles; (2) preparing documents necessary for the transfer of the title, financing, and settlement; (3) conducting final
real estate settlements and closings; and (4) filing legal and other documents relating to the sale of real estate. Real
estate settlement offices, title abstract companies, and title search companies are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments of lawyers and attorneys primarily engaged in the practice of law are classified in Industry 541110,
          Offices of Lawyers.

541199 All Other Legal Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments of legal practitioners (except offices of lawyers and attorneys,
settlement offices, and title abstract offices). These establishments are primarily engaged in providing specialized
legal or paralegal services.

Illustrative Examples:

Notary public services
Patent agent services (i.e., patent filing and searching services)
Paralegal services
Process serving services

Cross-References.

         Establishments of lawyers and attorneys primarily engaged in the practice of law are classified in Industry
          541110, Offices of Lawyers;
         Establishments (except offices of lawyers and attorneys) primarily engaged in researching public land
          records for ownership or title; preparing documents necessary for the transfer of the title, financing, and
          settlement; conducting final real estate settlements and closings; and/or filing legal and other documents
          relating to the sale of real estate are classified in U.S. Industry 541191, Title Abstract and Settlement
          Offices; and
         Establishments (except offices of lawyers, attorneys, and paralegals) primarily engaged in providing
          arbitration and conciliation services are classified in Industry 541990, All Other Professional, Scientific,
          and Technical Services.

5412      Accounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services           T



54121     Accounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing services, such as auditing of accounting
records, designing accounting systems, preparing financial statements, developing budgets, preparing tax returns,
processing payrolls, bookkeeping, and billing.

Illustrative Examples:

Accountants' offices
Payroll processing services
Bookkeeping services
Tax return preparation services

Cross-References.

  Establishments providing computer data processing services at their own facility for others are classified in
Industry 51821, Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services.

541211 Offices of Certified Public Accountants

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments of accountants that are certified to audit the accounting records of
public and private organizations and to attest to compliance with generally accepted accounting practices. Offices of
certified public accountants (CPAs) may provide one or more of the following accounting services: (1) auditing
financial statements; (2) designing accounting systems; (3) preparing financial statements; (4) developing budgets;
and (5) providing advice on matters related to accounting. These establishments may also provide related services,
such as bookkeeping, tax return preparation, and payroll processing.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing tax return preparation services only--are classified in U.S. Industry 541213, Tax Preparation
          Services;
         Providing payroll processing services only--are classified in U.S. Industry 541214, Payroll Services; and
         Providing accounting, bookkeeping, and billing services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541219, Other
          Accounting Services.

541213 Tax Preparation Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except offices of CPAs) engaged in providing tax return preparation
services without also providing accounting, bookkeeping, billing, or payroll processing services. Basic knowledge
of tax law and filing requirements is required.

Cross-References.

        Establishments of CPAs are classified in U.S. Industry 541211, Offices of Certified Public Accountants;
        Establishments of non-CPAs providing payroll services along with tax return preparation services are
         classified in U.S. Industry 541214, Payroll Services;
        Establishments of non-CPAs providing accounting, bookkeeping, or billing services along with tax return
         preparation services are classified in U.S. Industry 541219, Other Accounting Services; and
        Establishments providing computer data processing services at their own facility for others are classified in
         Industry 518210, Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services.

541214 Payroll Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except offices of CPAs) engaged in the following without also
providing accounting, bookkeeping, or billing services: (1) collecting information on hours worked, pay rates,
deductions, and other payroll-related data from their clients; and (2) using that information to generate paychecks,
payroll reports, and tax filings. These establishments may use data processing and tabulating techniques as part of
providing their services.

Cross-References.

        Establishments of CPAs are classified in U.S. Industry 541211, Offices of Certified Public Accountants;
        Establishments of non-CPAs providing tax return preparation services only are classified in U.S. Industry
         541213, Tax Preparation Services; and
        Establishments of non-CPAs providing accounting, bookkeeping, or billing services along with payroll
         services are classified in U.S. Industry 541219, Other Accounting Services.

541219 Other Accounting Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except offices of CPAs) engaged in providing accounting services
(except tax return preparation services only or payroll services only). These establishments may also provide tax
return preparation or payroll services. Accountant (except CPA) offices, bookkeeper offices, and billing offices are
included in this industry.

Cross-References.

        Establishments of CPAs are classified in U.S. Industry 541211, Offices of Certified Public Accountants;
        Establishments of non-CPAs engaged in providing tax return preparation services only are classified in
         U.S. Industry 541213, Tax Preparation Services; and
        Establishments of non-CPAs engaged in providing payroll services only are classified in U.S. Industry
         541214, Payroll Services.

5413     Architectural, Engineering, and Related Services      T



54131    Architectural Services   T

         See industry description for 541310 below.

541310 Architectural Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in planning and designing residential, institutional,
leisure, commercial, and industrial buildings and structures by applying knowledge of design, construction
procedures, zoning regulations, building codes, and building materials.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Planning and designing the development of land areas--are classified in Industry 541320, Landscape
          Architectural Services; and
         Both the design and construction of buildings, highways, or other structures or in managing construction
          projects--are classified in Sector 23, Construction, according to the type of project.

54132     Landscape Architectural Services     T

          See industry description for 541320 below.

541320 Landscape Architectural Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in planning and designing the development of land
areas for projects, such as parks and other recreational areas; airports; highways; hospitals; schools; land
subdivisions; and commercial, industrial, and residential areas, by applying knowledge of land characteristics,
location of buildings and structures, use of land areas, and design of landscape projects.

Illustrative Examples:

Garden planning services
Landscape architects' offices
Golf course or ski area design services
Landscape consulting services
Industrial land use planning services
Landscape design services

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing landscape care and maintenance services and/or installing trees,
shrubs, plants, lawns, or gardens along with the design of landscape plans are classified in Industry 561730,
Landscaping Services.

54133     Engineering Services   T

          See industry description for 541330 below.

541330 Engineering Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in applying physical laws and principles of engineering
in the design, development, and utilization of machines, materials, instruments, structures, processes, and systems.
The assignments undertaken by these establishments may involve any of the following activities: provision of
advice, preparation of feasibility studies, preparation of preliminary and final plans and designs, provision of
technical services during the construction or installation phase, inspection and evaluation of engineering projects,
and related services.

Illustrative Examples:

Civil engineering services
Environmental engineering services
Construction engineering services
Mechanical engineering services
Engineers' offices

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Planning and designing computer systems that integrate computer hardware, software, and communication
          technologies--are classified in U.S. Industry 541512, Computer Systems Design Services;
         Performing surveying and mapping services of the surface of the earth, including the sea floor--are
          classified in Industry 541370, Surveying and Mapping (except Geophysical) Services;

        Gathering, interpreting, and mapping geophysical data--are classified in Industry 541360, Geophysical
         Surveying and Mapping Services;
        Creating and developing designs and specifications that optimize the use, value, and appearance of
         products--are classified in Industry 541420, Industrial Design Services;
        Providing advice and assistance to others on environmental issues, such as the control of environmental
         contamination from pollutants, toxic substances, and hazardous materials--are classified in Industry
         541620, Environmental Consulting Services; and
        Both the design and construction of buildings, highways, and other structures or in managing construction
         projects--are classified in Sector 23, Construction, according to the type of project.

54134    Drafting Services  T

         See industry description for 541340 below.

541340 Drafting Services

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in drawing detailed layouts, plans, and illustrations of
buildings, structures, systems, or components from engineering and architectural specifications.

54135    Building Inspection Services    T

         See industry description for 541350 below.

541350 Building Inspection Services

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing building inspection services. These
establishments typically evaluate all aspects of the building structure and component systems and prepare a report
on the physical condition of the property, generally for buyers or others involved in real estate transactions.
Building inspection bureaus and establishments providing home inspection services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Inspecting buildings for termites and other pests--are classified in Industry 561710, Exterminating and Pest
         Control Services;
        Inspecting buildings for hazardous materials--are classified in Industry 541620, Environmental Consulting
         Services; and
        Conducting building inspections and enforcing building codes and standards--are classified in Industry
         926150, Regulation, Licensing, and Inspection of Miscellaneous Commercial Sectors.

54136    Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services        T

         See industry description for 541360 below.

541360 Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in gathering, interpreting, and mapping geophysical
data. Establishments in this industry often specialize in locating and measuring the extent of subsurface resources,
such as oil, gas, and minerals, but they may also conduct surveys for engineering purposes. Establishments in this
industry use a variety of surveying techniques depending on the purpose of the survey, including magnetic surveys,
gravity surveys, seismic surveys, or electrical and electromagnetic surveys.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in taking core samples, drilling test wells, or other mine development activities
(except geophysical surveying and mapping) on a contract basis for others are classified in Industry 21311, Support
Activities for Mining.

54137    Surveying and Mapping (except Geophysical) Services         T

         See industry description for 541370 below.

541370 Surveying and Mapping (except Geophysical) Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing surveying and mapping services of the
surface of the earth, including the sea floor. These services may include surveying and mapping of areas above or
below the surface of the earth, such as the creation of view easements or segregating rights in parcels of land by
creating underground utility easements.

Illustrative Examples:

Cadastral surveying services
Mapping (except geophysical) services
Cartographic surveying services
Topographic surveying services
Geodetic surveying services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing geophysical surveying and mapping services--are classified in Industry 541360, Geophysical
          Surveying and Mapping Services;
         Publishing atlases and maps, except for exclusive Internet publishing--are classified in Industry 511130,
          Book Publishers; and
         Publishing atlases and maps exclusively on the Internet--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet
          Publishing and Broadcasting and Web Search Portals.

54138     Testing Laboratories    T

          See industry description for 541380 below.

541380 Testing Laboratories

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in performing physical, chemical, and other analytical
testing services, such as acoustics or vibration testing, assaying, biological testing (except medical and veterinary),
calibration testing, electrical and electronic testing, geotechnical testing, mechanical testing, nondestructive testing,
or thermal testing. The testing may occur in a laboratory or on-site.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Laboratory testing for the medical profession--are classified in Industry 62151, Medical and Diagnostic
          Laboratories;
         Veterinary testing services--are classified in Industry 541940, Veterinary Services; and
         Auto emissions testing--are classified in U.S. Industry 811198, All Other Automotive Repair and
          Maintenance.

5414      Specialized Design Services    T



  This industry group comprises establishments providing specialized design services (except architectural,
engineering, and computer systems design).

54141     Interior Design Services   T

          See industry description for 541410 below.

541410 Interior Design Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in planning, designing, and administering projects in
interior spaces to meet the physical and aesthetic needs of people using them, taking into consideration building
codes, health and safety regulations, traffic patterns and floor planning, mechanical and electrical needs, and interior

fittings and furniture. Interior designers and interior design consultants work in areas, such as hospitality design,
health care design, institutional design, commercial and corporate design, and residential design. This industry also
includes interior decorating consultants engaged exclusively in providing aesthetic services associated with interior
spaces.

54142     Industrial Design Services   T

          See industry description for 541420 below.

541420 Industrial Design Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in creating and developing designs and specifications
that optimize the use, value, and appearance of their products. These services can include the determination of the
materials, construction, mechanisms, shape, color, and surface finishes of the product, taking into consideration
human characteristics and needs, safety, market appeal, and efficiency in production, distribution, use, and
maintenance. Establishments providing automobile or furniture industrial design services or industrial design
consulting services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Applying physical laws and principles of engineering in the design, development, and utilization of
          machines, materials, instruments, structures, processes, and systems--are classified in Industry 541330,
          Engineering Services; and
         Designing clothing, shoes, or jewelry--are classified in Industry 541490, Other Specialized Design
          Services.

54143     Graphic Design Services    T

          See industry description for 541430 below.

541430 Graphic Design Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in planning, designing, and managing the production of
visual communication in order to convey specific messages or concepts, clarify complex information, or project
visual identities. These services can include the design of printed materials, packaging, advertising, signage
systems, and corporate identification (logos). This industry also includes commercial artists engaged exclusively in
generating drawings and illustrations requiring technical accuracy or interpretative skills.

Illustrative Examples:

Commercial art studios
Independent commercial or graphic artists
Corporate identification (i.e., logo) design services
Medical art or illustration services
Graphic design consulting services

Cross-References.

         Establishments primarily engaged in creating and/or placing public display advertising material are
          classified in Industry 541850, Outdoor Advertising; and
         Independent artists primarily engaged in creating and selling visual artwork for noncommercial use and
          independent cartoonists are classified in Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers.

54149     Other Specialized Design Services    T

          See industry description for 541490 below.

541490 Other Specialized Design Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing professional design services (except
architectural, landscape architecture, engineering, interior, industrial, graphic, and computer system design).

Illustrative Examples:

Costume design services (except independent theatrical costume designers)
Jewelry design services
Fashion design services
Float design services
Shoe design services
Fur design services
Textile design services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing architectural design services--are classified in Industry 541310, Architectural Services;
         Providing landscape architecture design services--are classified in Industry 541320, Landscape
          Architectural Services;
         Providing engineering design services--are classified in Industry 541330, Engineering Services;
         Providing interior design services--are classified in Industry 541410, Interior Design Services;
         Providing industrial design services--are classified in Industry 541420, Industrial Design Services;
         Providing graphic design services--are classified in Industry 541430, Graphic Design Services;
         Providing computer systems design services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541512, Computer Systems
          Design Services; and
         Operating as independent theatrical designers--are classified in Industry 711510, Independent Artists,
          Writers, and Performers.

5415      Computer Systems Design and Related Services         T



54151     Computer Systems Design and Related Services         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing expertise in the field of information
technologies through one or more of the following activities: (1) writing, modifying, testing, and supporting
software to meet the needs of a particular customer; (2) planning and designing computer systems that integrate
computer hardware, software, and communication technologies; (3) on-site management and operation of clients'
computer systems and/or data processing facilities; and (4) other professional and technical computer-related advice
and services.

Illustrative Examples:

Computer facilities management services
Custom computer programming services
Computer hardware or software consulting services
Software installation services
Computer systems integration design services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Selling computer hardware or software products from retail-like locations and providing supporting
          services, such as customized assembly of personal computers--are classified in Industry 44314, Electronics
          and Appliance Stores;
         Merchant wholesaling computer hardware or software products and providing supporting services, such as
          customized assembly of personal computers--are classified in Industry 42343, Computer and Computer
          Peripheral Equipment and Software Merchant Wholesalers;
         Publishing packaged software--are classified in Industry 51121, Software Publishers; and

         Providing computer data processing services at their own facility for others--are classified in Industry
          51821, Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services.

541511 Custom Computer Programming Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in writing, modifying, testing, and supporting
software to meet the needs of a particular customer.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Publishing packaged software--are classified in Industry 511210, Software Publishers; and
         Planning and designing computer systems that integrate computer hardware, software, and communication
          technologies, even though such establishments may provide custom software as an integral part of their
          services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541512, Computer Systems Design Services.

541512 Computer Systems Design Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in planning and designing computer systems that
integrate computer hardware, software, and communication technologies. The hardware and software components
of the system may be provided by this establishment or company as part of integrated services or may be provided
by third parties or vendors. These establishments often install the system and train and support users of the system.

Illustrative Examples:

Computer systems integration design consulting services
Local area network (LAN) computer systems integration design services
Information management computer systems integration design services
Office automation computer systems integration design services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Selling computer hardware or software products and systems from retail-like locations, and providing
          supporting services, such as customized assembly of personal computers--are classified in U.S. Industry
          443142, Electronics Stores; and
         Merchant wholesaling computer hardware or software products and providing supporting services, such as
          customized assembly of personal computers--are classified in Industry 423430, Computer and Computer
          Peripheral Equipment and Software Merchant Wholesalers.

541513 Computer Facilities Management Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing on-site management and operation of
clients' computer systems and/or data processing facilities. Establishments providing computer systems or data
processing facilities support services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing computer data processing services at their own facility for others
are classified in Industry 518210, Data Processing, Hosting, and Related Services.

541519 Other Computer Related Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing computer related services (except
custom programming, systems integration design, and facilities management services). Establishments providing
computer disaster recovery services or software installation services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing custom computer programming services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541511, Custom
          Computer Programming Services;
         Providing computer systems integration design services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541512, Computer
          Systems Design Services; and
         Providing computer systems and/or data processing facilities management services--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 541513, Computer Facilities Management Services.

5416      Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services      T



54161     Management Consulting Services       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing advice and assistance to businesses and
other organizations on management issues, such as strategic and organizational planning; financial planning and
budgeting; marketing objectives and policies; human resource policies, practices, and planning; production
scheduling; and control planning.

Illustrative Examples:

Actuarial, benefit, and compensation consulting services
Marketing consulting services
Administrative and general management consulting services
Process, physical distribution, and logistics consulting services
Human resources consulting services

Cross-References.

         Establishments primarily engaged in providing a range of day-to-day office administrative services, such as
          financial planning, billing and recordkeeping, personnel, and physical distribution and logistics are
          classified in Industry 56111, Office Administrative Services;
         Establishments primarily engaged in providing executive search, recruitment, and placement services are
          classified in Industry 56131, Employment Placement Agencies and Executive Search Services;
         Establishments primarily engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing other establishments of the
          company or enterprise (except government establishments) are classified in Industry 55111, Management
          of Companies and Enterprises;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing governmental
          programs are classified in Sector 92, Public Administration;
         Establishments primarily engaged in professional and management development training are classified in
          Industry 61143, Professional and Management Development Training;
         Establishments primarily engaged in listing employment vacancies and in selecting, referring, and placing
          applicants in employment are classified in Industry 56131, Employment Placement Agencies and Executive
          Search Services;
         Establishments primarily engaged in developing and implementing public relations plans are classified in
          Industry 54182, Public Relations Agencies;
         Establishments primarily engaged in developing and conducting marketing research or public opinion
          polling are classified in Industry 54191, Marketing Research and Public Opinion Polling;
         Establishments primarily engaged in planning and designing industrial processes and systems are classified
          in Industry 54133, Engineering Services;
         Establishments primarily engaged in planning and designing computer systems are classified in Industry
          54151, Computer Systems Design and Related Services; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in providing financial investment advice services are classified in
          Industry 52393, Investment Advice.

541611 Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing operating advice and assistance to
businesses and other organizations on administrative management issues, such as financial planning and budgeting,
equity and asset management, records management, office planning, strategic and organizational planning, site
selection, new business startup, and business process improvement. This industry also includes establishments of
general management consultants that provide a full range of administrative; human resource; marketing; process,
physical distribution, and logistics; or other management consulting services to clients.

Illustrative Examples:

Administrative management consulting services
Site selection consulting services
Financial management (except investment advice) consulting services
Strategic planning consulting services
General management consulting services

Cross-References.

         Establishments primarily engaged in providing a range of day-to-day office administrative services, such as
          financial planning, billing and recordkeeping, personnel, and physical distribution and logistics, are
          classified in Industry 561110, Office Administrative Services;
         Establishments providing operations consulting services are classified in U.S. Industry 541614, Process,
          Physical Distribution, and Logistics Consulting Services;
         Establishments primarily engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing other establishments of the
          company or enterprise (except government establishments) are classified in U.S. Industry 551114,
          Corporate, Subsidiary, and Regional Managing Offices;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing governmental
          programs are classified in Sector 92, Public Administration; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in providing investment advice are classified in Industry 523930,
          Investment Advice.

541612 Human Resources Consulting Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing advice and assistance to businesses
and other organizations in one or more of the following areas: (1) human resource and personnel policies, practices,
and procedures; (2) employee benefits planning, communication, and administration; (3) compensation systems
planning; and (4) wage and salary administration.

Illustrative Examples:

Benefit or compensation consulting services
Employee assessment consulting services
Personnel management consulting services
Human resources consulting services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing professional and management development training--are classified in Industry 611430,
          Professional and Management Development Training;
         Listing employment vacancies and in selecting, referring, and placing applicants in employment--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 561311, Employment Placement Agencies; and
         Providing executive search, recruitment, and placement services--are classified in U.S. Industry 561312,
          Executive Search Services.

541613 Marketing Consulting Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing operating advice and assistance to
businesses and other organizations on marketing issues, such as developing marketing objectives and policies, sales
forecasting, new product developing and pricing, licensing and franchise planning, and marketing planning and
strategy.

Illustrative Examples:

Customer services management consulting services
New product development consulting services
Marketing management consulting services
Sales management consulting services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Developing and implementing public relations plans--are classified in Industry 541820, Public Relations
          Agencies; and
         Developing and conducting marketing research or public opinion polling--are classified in Industry 541910,
          Marketing Research and Public Opinion Polling.

541614 Process, Physical Distribution, and Logistics Consulting Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing operating advice and assistance to
businesses and other organizations in areas, such as: (1) manufacturing operations improvement; (2) productivity
improvement; (3) production planning and control; (4) quality assurance and quality control; (5) inventory
management; (6) distribution networks; (7) warehouse use, operations, and utilization; (8) transportation and
shipment of goods and materials; and (9) materials management and handling.

Illustrative Examples:

Freight rate or tariff rate consulting services
Productivity improvement consulting services
Inventory planning and control management consulting services
Transportation management consulting services
Manufacturing management consulting services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Planning and designing industrial processes and systems--are classified in Industry 541330, Engineering
          Services; and
         Providing computer systems integration design services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541512, Computer
          Systems Design Services.

541618 Other Management Consulting Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing management consulting services
(except administrative and general management consulting; human resources consulting; marketing consulting; or
process, physical distribution, and logistics consulting). Establishments providing telecommunications or utilities
management consulting services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing administrative and general management consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry
          541611, Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services;
         Providing human resources consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541612, Human Resources
          Consulting Services;

         Providing marketing consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541613, Marketing Consulting
          Services; and
         Providing process, physical distribution, and logistics consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry
          541614, Process, Physical Distribution, and Logistics Consulting Services.

54162     Environmental Consulting Services     T

          See industry description for 541620 below.

541620 Environmental Consulting Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing advice and assistance to businesses and
other organizations on environmental issues, such as the control of environmental contamination from pollutants,
toxic substances, and hazardous materials. These establishments identify problems (e.g., inspect buildings for
hazardous materials), measure and evaluate risks, and recommend solutions. They employ a multidisciplined staff
of scientists, engineers, and other technicians with expertise in areas, such as air and water quality, asbestos
contamination, remediation, and environmental law. Establishments providing sanitation or site remediation
consulting services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Environmental remediation--are classified in Industry 562910, Remediation Services; and
         Providing environmental engineering services--are classified in Industry 541330, Engineering Services.

54169     Other Scientific and Technical Consulting Services      T

          See industry description for 541690 below.

541690 Other Scientific and Technical Consulting Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing advice and assistance to businesses and
other organizations on scientific and technical issues (except environmental).

Illustrative Examples:

Agricultural consulting services
Motion picture consulting services
Biological consulting services
Physics consulting services
Chemical consulting services
Radio consulting services
Economic consulting services
Safety consulting services
Energy consulting services
Security consulting services

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in environmental consulting are classified in Industry 541620, Environmental
Consulting Services.

5417      Scientific Research and Development Services      T



  This industry group comprises establishments engaged in conducting original investigation undertaken on a
systematic basis to gain new knowledge (research) and/or the application of research findings or other scientific
knowledge for the creation of new or significantly improved products or processes (experimental development). The
industries within this industry group are defined on the basis of the domain of research; that is, on the scientific
expertise of the establishment.

54171     Research and Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences             T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in conducting research and experimental development
in the physical, engineering, and life sciences, such as agriculture, electronics, environmental, biology, botany,
biotechnology, computers, chemistry, food, fisheries, forests, geology, health, mathematics, medicine,
oceanography, pharmacy, physics, veterinary, and other allied subjects.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing veterinary testing services--are classified in Industry 54194, Veterinary Services;
         Providing medical laboratory testing for humans--are classified in Industry 62151, Medical and Diagnostic
          Laboratories;
         Providing physical, chemical, or other analytical testing services (except medical or veterinary), such as
          acoustics or vibration testing, calibration testing, electrical and electronic testing, geotechnical testing,
          mechanical testing, nondestructive testing, or thermal testing--are classified in Industry 54138, Testing
          Laboratories; and
         Manufacturing vaccines, toxoids, blood fractions, and culture media of plant or animal origin (except
          diagnostic use) and/or uncompounded medicinal chemicals and their derivatives (i.e., enzyme proteins and
          antibiotics for pharmaceutical use)--are classified in Industry 32541, Pharmaceutical and Medicine
          Manufacturing.

541711 Research and Development in Biotechnology

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in conducting biotechnology research and
experimental development. Biotechnology research and experimental development involves the study of the use of
microorganisms and cellular and biomolecular processes to develop or alter living or non-living materials. This
research and development in biotechnology may result in development of new biotechnology processes or in
prototypes of new or genetically-altered products that may be reproduced, utilized, or implemented by various
industries.

Illustrative Examples:

Recombinant DNA research and experimental development laboratories
DNA technologies (e.g., microarrays) research and experimental development laboratories
Cloning research and experimental development laboratories
Protein engineering research and experimental development laboratories
Nucleic acid chemistry research and experimental development laboratories
Nanobiotechnologies research and experimental development laboratories

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Conducting research and experimental development in the physical, engineering, and life sciences (except
          biotechnology)--are classified in U.S. Industry 541712, Research and Development in the Physical,
          Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology);
         Providing veterinary testing services--are classified in Industry 541940, Veterinary Services;
         Providing physical, chemical, or other analytical testing services (except medical or veterinary), such as
          acoustics or vibration testing, calibration testing, electrical and electronic testing, geotechnical testing,
          mechanical testing, nondestructive testing, or thermal testing--are classified in Industry 541380, Testing
          Laboratories;
         Manufacturing vaccines, toxoids, blood fractions, and culture media of plant or animal origin (except
          diagnostic use)--are classified in U.S. Industry 325414, Biological Product (except Diagnostic)
          Manufacturing; and
         Manufacturing uncompounded medicinal chemicals and their derivatives (i.e., enzyme proteins and
          antibiotics for pharmaceutical use)--are classified in U.S. Industry 325411, Medicinal and Botanical
          Manufacturing.

541712 Research and Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology)

 This U.S. Industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in conducting research and experimental
development (except biotechnology research and experimental development) in the physical, engineering, and life
sciences, such as agriculture, electronics, environmental, biology, botany, computers, chemistry, food, fisheries,
forests, geology, health, mathematics, medicine, oceanography, pharmacy, physics, veterinary and other allied
subjects.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing physical, chemical, or other analytical testing services (except medical or veterinary)--are
         classified in Industry 541380, Testing Laboratories;
        Providing medical laboratory testing for humans--are classified in U.S. Industry 621511, Medical
         Laboratories;
        Conducting research and experimental development in biotechnology--are classified in U.S. Industry
         541711, Research and Development in Biotechnology; and
        Providing veterinary testing services--are classified in Industry 541940, Veterinary Services.

54172    Research and Development in the Social Sciences and Humanities           T

         See industry description for 541720 below.

541720 Research and Development in the Social Sciences and Humanities

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in conducting research and analyses in cognitive
development, sociology, psychology, language, behavior, economic, and other social science and humanities
research.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in marketing research are classified in Industry 541910, Marketing Research
and Public Opinion Polling.

5418     Advertising, Public Relations, and Related Services      T



54181    Advertising Agencies    T

         See industry description for 541810 below.

541810 Advertising Agencies

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in creating advertising campaigns and placing such
advertising in periodicals, newspapers, radio and television, or other media. These establishments are organized to
provide a full range of services (i.e., through in-house capabilities or subcontracting), including advice, creative
services, account management, production of advertising material, media planning, and buying (i.e., placing
advertising).

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Purchasing advertising space from media outlets and reselling it directly to advertising agencies or
         individual companies--are classified in Industry 541830, Media Buying Agencies;
        Conceptualizing and producing artwork or graphic designs without providing other advertising agency
         services--are classified in Industry 541430, Graphic Design Services;
        Creating direct mail advertising campaigns--are classified in Industry 541860, Direct Mail Advertising;
        Providing marketing consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541613, Marketing Consulting
         Services; and

         Selling media time or space for media owners as independent representatives--are classified in Industry
          541840, Media Representatives.

54182     Public Relations Agencies    T

          See industry description for 541820 below.

541820 Public Relations Agencies

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in designing and implementing public relations
campaigns. These campaigns are designed to promote the interests and image of their clients. Establishments
providing lobbying, political consulting, or public relations consulting are included in this industry.

54183     Media Buying Agencies      T

          See industry description for 541830 below.

541830 Media Buying Agencies

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in purchasing advertising time or space from media
outlets and reselling it to advertising agencies or individual companies directly.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Selling time and space to advertisers for media owners as independent representatives--are classified in
          Industry 541840, Media Representatives; and
         Creating advertising campaigns and placing such advertising in media--are classified in Industry 541810,
          Advertising Agencies.

54184     Media Representatives     T

          See industry description for 541840 below.

541840 Media Representatives

  This industry comprises establishments of independent representatives primarily engaged in selling media time or
space for media owners.

Illustrative Examples:

Newspaper advertising representatives (i.e., independent of media owners)
Radio advertising representatives (i.e., independent of media owners)
Publishers' advertising representatives (i.e., independent of media owners)
Television advertising representatives (i.e., independent of media owners)

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Purchasing advertising time or space from media outlets and reselling it directly to advertising agencies or
          individual companies--are classified in Industry 541830, Media Buying Agencies; and
         Creating advertising campaigns and placing such advertising in media--are classified in Industry 541810,
          Advertising Agencies.

54185     Outdoor Advertising    T

          See industry description for 541850 below.

541850 Outdoor Advertising

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in creating and designing public display advertising
campaign materials, such as printed, painted, or electronic displays; and/or placing such displays on indoor or

outdoor billboards and panels, or on or within transit vehicles or facilities, shopping malls, retail (in-store) displays,
and other display structures or sites.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing sign lettering and painting services--are classified in Industry 541890, Other Services Related to
          Advertising;
         Printing paper on paperboard signs--are classified in Industry 32311, Printing;
         Erecting display boards--are classified in Industry 238990, All Other Specialty Trade Contractors; and
         Manufacturing electrical, mechanical, or plate signs and point-of-sale advertising displays--are classified in
          Industry 339950, Sign Manufacturing.

54186     Direct Mail Advertising    T

          See industry description for 541860 below.

541860 Direct Mail Advertising

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) creating and designing advertising campaigns for
the purpose of distributing advertising materials (e.g., coupons, flyers, samples) or specialties (e.g., key chains,
magnets, pens with customized messages imprinted) by mail or other direct distribution; and/or (2) preparing
advertising materials or specialties for mailing or other direct distribution. These establishments may also compile,
maintain, sell, and rent mailing lists.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         The direct distribution or delivery (e.g., door-to-door, windshield placement) of advertisements or samples-
          -are classified in Industry 541870, Advertising Material Distribution Services;
         Distributing advertising specialties for clients who wish to use such materials for promotional purposes--are
          classified in Industry 541890, Other Services Related to Advertising;
         Creating advertising campaigns and placing such advertising in media--are classified in Industry 541810,
          Advertising Agencies;
         Compiling and selling mailing lists without providing direct mail advertising services--are classified in
          Industry 511140, Directory and Mailing List Publishers; and
         Broadcasting exclusively on the Internet--are classified in Industry 519130, Internet Publishing and
          Broadcasting and Web Search Portals.

54187     Advertising Material Distribution Services      T

          See industry description for 541870 below.

541870 Advertising Material Distribution Services

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the direct distribution or delivery of advertisements
(e.g., circulars, coupons, handbills) or samples. Establishments in this industry use methods, such as delivering
advertisements or samples door-to-door, placing flyers or coupons on car windshields in parking lots, or handing out
samples in retail stores.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Creating and designing advertising campaigns for the purpose of distributing advertising materials or
          samples through the mail--are classified in Industry 541860, Direct Mail Advertising;
         Publishing newspapers or operating television stations or on-line information services--are classified in
          Sector 51, Information; and
         Distributing advertising specialties (e.g., key chains, magnets, or pens with customized messages
          imprinted) to clients who wish to use such materials for promotional purposes--are classified in Industry
          541890, Other Services Related to Advertising.

54189     Other Services Related to Advertising    T

          See industry description for 541890 below.

541890 Other Services Related to Advertising

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing advertising services (except advertising
agency services, public relations agency services, media buying agency services, media representative services,
display advertising services, direct mail advertising services, advertising material distribution services, and
marketing consulting services).

Illustrative Examples:

Advertising specialties (e.g., key chains, magnets, pens) distribution services (except direct mail)
Sign lettering and painting services
Display lettering services
Store window dressing or trimming services
Mannequin decorating services
Welcoming services (i.e., advertising services)
Merchandise demonstration services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Creating advertising campaigns and placing such advertising in newspapers, television, or other media--are
          classified in Industry 541810, Advertising Agencies;
         Designing and implementing public relations campaigns--are classified in Industry 541820, Public
          Relations Agencies;
         Purchasing advertising time or space from media outlets and reselling it directly to advertising agencies or
          individual companies--are classified in Industry 541830, Media Buying Agencies;
         Selling media time or space for media owners as independent representatives--are classified in Industry
          541840, Media Representatives;
         Providing display advertising services (except aerial)--are classified in Industry 541850, Outdoor
          Advertising;
         Providing direct distribution or delivery (e.g., door-to-door, windshield placement) of advertisements or
          samples--are classified in Industry 541870, Advertising Material Distribution Services;
         Providing direct mail advertising services--are classified in Industry 541860, Direct Mail Advertising;
         Publishing newspapers or operating television stations or on-line information services--are classified in
          Sector 51, Information; and
         Providing marketing consulting services--are classified in U.S. Industry 541613, Marketing Consulting
          Services.

5419      Other Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services    T



  This industry group comprises establishments engaged in professional, scientific, and technical services (except
legal services; accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping, and related services; architectural, engineering, and related
services; specialized design services; computer systems design and related services; management, scientific, and
technical consulting services; scientific research and development services; and advertising, public relations and
related services).

54191     Marketing Research and Public Opinion Polling        T

          See industry description for 541910 below.

541910 Marketing Research and Public Opinion Polling

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in systematically gathering, recording, tabulating, and
presenting marketing and public opinion data.

Illustrative Examples:

Broadcast media rating services
Political opinion polling services
Marketing analysis or research services
Statistical sampling services
Opinion research services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing research and analysis in economics, sociology, and related fields--are classified in Industry
          541720, Research and Development in the Social Sciences and Humanities; and
         Providing advice and counsel on marketing strategies--are classified in U.S. Industry 541613, Marketing
          Consulting Services.

54192     Photographic Services   T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing still, video, or digital photography
services. These establishments may specialize in a particular field of photography, such as commercial and
industrial photography, portrait photography, and special events photography. Commercial or portrait photography
studios are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Producing film and videotape for commercial exhibition or sale--are classified in Industry 51211, Motion
          Picture and Video Production;
         Developing still photographs--are classified in Industry 81292, Photofinishing;
         Developing motion picture film--are classified in Industry 51219, Postproduction Services and Other
          Motion Picture and Video Industries;
         Taking, developing, and selling artistic, news, or other types of photographs on a freelance basis, such as
          photojournalists--are classified in Industry 71151, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers; and
         Supplying and servicing automatic photography machines in places of business operated by others--are
          classified in Industry 81299, All Other Personal Services.

541921 Photography Studios, Portrait

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as portrait studios primarily engaged in providing still, video,
or digital portrait photography services.

Illustrative Examples:

Home photography services
School photography services
Passport photography services
Videotaping services for special events (e.g., weddings)

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Producing film and videotape for commercial exhibition or sale--are classified in Industry 512110, Motion
          Picture and Video Production;
         Developing still photographs--are classified in Industry 81292, Photofinishing;
         Developing motion picture film--are classified in U.S. Industry 512199, Other Motion Picture and Video
          Industries;
         Taking, developing, and selling artistic, news, or other types of photographs on a freelance basis, such as
          photojournalists--are classified in Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers; and

         Supplying and servicing automatic photography machines in places of business operated by others--are
          classified in Industry 812990, All Other Personal Services.

541922 Commercial Photography

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing commercial photography services,
generally for advertising agencies, publishers, and other business and industrial users.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Producing film and videotape for commercial exhibition or sale--are classified in Industry 512110, Motion
          Picture and Video Production;
         Developing still photographs--are classified in Industry 81292, Photofinishing;
         Developing motion picture film--are classified in U.S. Industry 512199, Other Motion Picture and Video
          Industries;
         Taking, developing, and selling artistic, news, or other types of photographs on a freelance basis, such as
          photojournalists--are classified in Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers; and
         Supplying and servicing automatic photography machines in places of business operated by others--are
          classified in Industry 812990, All Other Personal Services.

54193     Translation and Interpretation Services    T

          See industry description for 541930 below.

541930 Translation and Interpretation Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in translating written material and interpreting speech
from one language to another and establishments primarily engaged in providing sign language services.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing transcription services--are classified in Industry 561410, Document Preparation Services;
         Providing real-time (i.e., simultaneous) closed captioning services for live television performances, at
          meetings and conferences--are classified in U.S. Industry 561492, Court Reporting and Stenotype Services;
         Providing film or tape closed captioning services--are classified in U.S. Industry 512191, Teleproduction
          and Other Postproduction Services; and
         Analyzing handwriting--are classified in Industry 541990, All Other Professional, Scientific, and Technical
          Services.

54194     Veterinary Services   T

          See industry description for 541940 below.

541940 Veterinary Services

  This industry comprises establishments of licensed veterinary practitioners primarily engaged in the practice of
veterinary medicine, dentistry, or surgery for animals; and establishments primarily engaged in providing testing
services for licensed veterinary practitioners.

Illustrative Examples:

Animal hospitals
Veterinary clinics
Veterinarians' offices
Veterinary testing laboratories

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing veterinary research and development services--are classified in Industry 54171, Research and
          Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences;
         Providing nonveterinary pet care services, such as boarding or grooming pets--are classified in Industry
          812910, Pet Care (except Veterinary) Services;
         Providing animal breeding services or boarding horses--are classified in Industry 115210, Support
          Activities for Animal Production; and
         Transporting pets--are classified in U.S. Industry 485991, Special Needs Transportation.

54199     All Other Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services     T

          See industry description for 541990 below.

541990 All Other Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the provision of professional, scientific, or technical
services (except legal services; accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping, and related services; architectural,
engineering, and related services; specialized design services; computer systems design and related services;
management, scientific, and technical consulting services; scientific research and development services; advertising,
public relations and related services; market research and public opinion polling; photographic services; translation
and interpretation services; and veterinary services).

Illustrative Examples:

Appraisal (except real estate) services
Marine surveyor (i.e., appraiser) services
Arbitration and conciliation services (except by lawyer, attorney, or paralegal offices)
Patent broker services (i.e., patent marketing services)
Commodity inspector services
Pipeline or power line inspection (i.e., visual) services
Consumer credit counseling services
Weather forecasting services
Handwriting analysis services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing legal services--are classified in Industry Group 5411, Legal Services;
         Providing accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping, and payroll services--are classified in Industry Group
          5412, Accounting, Tax Preparation, Bookkeeping, and Payroll Services;
         Providing architectural, engineering, and related services--are classified in Industry Group 5413,
          Architectural, Engineering, and Related Services;
         Providing specialized design services--are classified in Industry Group 5414, Specialized Design Services;
         Providing computer systems design and related services--are classified in Industry Group 5415, Computer
          Systems Design and Related Services;
         Providing management, scientific, and technical consulting services--are classified in Industry Group 5416,
          Management, Scientific, and Technical Consulting Services;
         Providing scientific research and development services--are classified in Industry Group 5417, Scientific
          Research and Development Services;
         Providing advertising and related services--are classified in Industry Group 5418, Advertising, Public
          Relations, and Related Services;
         Providing marketing research and public opinion polling--are classified in Industry 541910, Marketing
          Research and Public Opinion Polling;
         Providing photographic services--are classified in Industry 54192, Photographic Services;
         Providing translation and interpretation services--are classified in Industry 541930, Translation and
          Interpretation Services;
         Providing veterinary services--are classified in Industry 541940, Veterinary Services; and
         Providing real estate appraisal services--are classified in Industry 531320, Offices of Real Estate
          Appraisers.


                  Sector 55--Management of Companies and Enterprises                                   T


                                                The Sector as a Whole

 The Management of Companies and Enterprises sector comprises (1) establishments that hold the securities of (or
other equity interests in) companies and enterprises for the purpose of owning a controlling interest or influencing
management decisions or (2) establishments (except government establishments) that administer, oversee, and
manage establishments of the company or enterprise and that normally undertake the strategic or organizational
planning and decision making role of the company or enterprise. Establishments that administer, oversee, and
manage may hold the securities of the company or enterprise.
 Establishments in this sector perform essential activities that are often undertaken in-house by establishments in
many sectors of the economy. By consolidating the performance of these activities of the enterprise at one
establishment, economies of scale are achieved.
 Government establishments primarily engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing governmental
programs are classified in Sector 92, Public Administration. Establishments primarily engaged in providing a range
of day-to-day office administrative services, such as financial planning, billing and recordkeeping, personnel, and
physical distribution and logistics are classified in Industry 56111, Office Administrative Services.

551      Management of Companies and Enterprises           T



 Industries in the Management of Companies and Enterprises subsector include three main types of establishments:
(1) those that hold the securities of (or other equity interests in) companies and enterprises; (2) those (except
government establishments) that administer, oversee, and manage other establishments of the company or enterprise
but do not hold the securities of these establishments; and (3) those that both administer, oversee, and manage other
establishments of the company or enterprise and hold the securities of (or other equity interests in) these
establishments. Those establishments that administer, oversee, and manage normally undertake the strategic or
organizational planning and decision making role of the company or enterprise.

5511     Management of Companies and Enterprises           T



55111    Management of Companies and Enterprises           T



 This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in holding the securities of (or other equity interests
in) companies and enterprises for the purpose of owning a controlling interest or influencing the management
decisions or (2) establishments (except government establishments) that administer, oversee, and manage other
establishments of the company or enterprise and that normally undertake the strategic or organizational planning and
decision making role of the company or enterprise. Establishments that administer, oversee, and manage may hold
the securities of the company or enterprise.

Cross-References.

        Establishments primarily engaged in holding the securities of companies or enterprises and operating these
         entities are classified according to the business operated;
        Establishments primarily engaged in holding the securities of depository banks and operating these entities
         are classified in Industry Group 5221, Depository Credit Intermediation;
        Establishments primarily engaged in providing a single service to other establishments of the company or
         enterprise, such as trucking, warehousing, research and development, and data processing are classified
         according to the service provided; and
        Government establishments primarily engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing governmental
         programs are classified in Sector 92, Public Administration.

551111 Offices of Bank Holding Companies

 This U.S. industry comprises legal entities known as bank holding companies primarily engaged in holding the
securities of (or other equity interests in) companies and enterprises for the purpose of owning a controlling interest

or influencing the management decisions of these firms. The holding companies in this industry do not administer,
oversee, and manage other establishments of the company or enterprise whose securities they hold.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Holding the securities of (or other equity interests in) a company or enterprise and administering,
          overseeing, and managing establishments of the company or enterprise whose securities they hold--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 551114, Corporate, Subsidiary, and Regional Managing Offices; and
         Holding the securities of depository banks and operating these entities--are classified in Industry Group
          5221, Depository Credit Intermediation.

551112 Offices of Other Holding Companies

  This U.S. industry comprises legal entities known as holding companies (except bank holding) primarily engaged
in holding the securities of (or other equity interests in) companies and enterprises for the purpose of owning a
controlling interest or influencing the management decisions of these firms. The holding companies in this industry
do not administer, oversee, and manage other establishments of the company or enterprise whose securities they
hold.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Holding the securities of (or other equity interests in) depository banks for the purpose of owning a
          controlling interest or influencing the management decisions of these firms--are classified in U.S. Industry
          551111, Offices of Bank Holding Companies;
         Holding the securities of (or other equity interests in) a company or enterprise and administering,
          overseeing, and managing establishments of the company or enterprise whose securities they hold--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 551114, Corporate, Subsidiary, and Regional Managing Offices; and
         Holding the securities of companies or enterprises and operating these entities--are classified according to
          the business operated.

551114 Corporate, Subsidiary, and Regional Managing Offices

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except government establishments) primarily engaged in
administering, overseeing, and managing other establishments of the company or enterprise. These establishments
normally undertake the strategic or organizational planning and decision making role of the company or enterprise.
Establishments in this industry may hold the securities of the company or enterprise.

Illustrative Examples:

Centralized administrative offices
Head offices
Corporate offices
Holding companies that manage
District and regional offices
Subsidiary management offices

Cross-References.

         Government establishments primarily engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing governmental
          programs are classified in Sector 92, Public Administration;
         Legal entities known as bank holding companies that do not administer, oversee, and manage other
          establishments of the companies or enterprises whose securities they hold are classified in U.S. Industry
          551111, Offices of Bank Holding Companies; and
         Legal entities known as holding companies (except bank holding) that do not administer, oversee, and
          manage other establishments of the companies or enterprises whose securities they hold are classified in
          U.S. Industry 551112, Offices of Other Holding Companies.


       Sector 56--Administrative and Support and Waste Management and
                                           Remediation Services             T


                                               The Sector as a Whole

 The Administrative and Support and Waste Management and Remediation Services sector comprises
establishments performing routine support activities for the day-to-day operations of other organizations. These
essential activities are often undertaken in-house by establishments in many sectors of the economy. The
establishments in this sector specialize in one or more of these support activities and provide these services to clients
in a variety of industries and, in some cases, to households. Activities performed include: office administration,
hiring and placing of personnel, document preparation and similar clerical services, solicitation, collection, security
and surveillance services, cleaning, and waste disposal services.
 The administrative and management activities performed by establishments in this sector are typically on a
contract or fee basis. These activities may also be performed by establishments that are part of the company or
enterprise. However, establishments involved in administering, overseeing, and managing other establishments of
the company or enterprise are classified in Sector 55, Management of Companies and Enterprises. Establishments
in Sector 55, Management of Companies and Enterprises normally undertake the strategic and organizational
planning and decision making role of the company or enterprise. Government establishments engaged in
administering, overseeing, and managing governmental programs are classified in Sector 92, Public Administration.

561      Administrative and Support Services      T



 Industries in the Administrative and Support Services subsector group establishments engaged in activities that
support the day-to-day operations of other organizations. The processes employed in this sector (e.g., general
management, personnel administration, clerical activities, cleaning activities) are often integral parts of the activities
of establishments found in all sectors of the economy. The establishments classified in this subsector have
specialization in one or more of these activities and can, therefore, provide services to clients in a variety of
industries and, in some cases, to households. The individual industries of this subsector are defined on the basis of
the particular process that they are engaged in and the particular services they provide.
 Many of the activities performed in this subsector are ongoing routine support functions that all businesses and
organizations must do and that they have traditionally done for themselves. Recent trends, however, are to contract
or purchase such services from businesses that specialize in such activities and can, therefore, provide the services
more efficiently.
 The industries in this subsector cannot be viewed as strictly "support." The Travel Arrangement and Reservation
Services industry group includes travel agents, tour operators, and providers of other travel arrangement services,
such as hotel and restaurant reservations and arranging the purchase of tickets, serving many types of clients,
including individual consumers. This group was placed in this subsector because the services are often of the
"support" nature (e.g., travel arrangement) and businesses and other organizations are increasingly the ones
purchasing such services.
 The administrative and management activities performed by establishments in this sector are typically on a
contract or fee basis. These activities may also be performed by establishments that are part of the company or
enterprise. However, establishments involved in administering, overseeing, and managing other establishments of
the company or enterprise are classified in Sector 55, Management of Companies and Enterprises. Establishments
in Sector 55 normally undertake the strategic and organizational planning and decision making role of the company
or enterprise. Government establishments engaged in administering, overseeing, and managing governmental
programs are classified in Sector 92, Public Administration.

5611     Office Administrative Services    T



56111    Office Administrative Services    T

         See industry description for 561110 below.


561110 Office Administrative Services

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing a range of day-to-day office administrative
services, such as financial planning; billing and recordkeeping; personnel; and physical distribution and logistics for
others on a contract or fee basis. These establishments do not provide operating staff to carry out the complete
operations of a business.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Holding the securities or financial assets of companies and enterprises for the purpose of controlling them
         and influencing their management decisions--are classified in U.S. Industry 551111, Offices of Bank
         Holding Companies or U.S. Industry 551112, Offices of Other Holding Companies;
        Administering, overseeing, and managing other establishments of the company or enterprise (except
         government establishments)--are classified in U.S. Industry 551114, Corporate, Subsidiary, and Regional
         Managing Offices;
        Providing computer facilities management--are classified in U.S. Industry 541513, Computer Facilities
         Management Services;
        Providing construction management--are classified in Sector 23, Construction, by type of construction
         project managed;
        Providing farm management--are classified in U.S. Industry 115116, Farm Management Services;
        Managing real property for others--are classified in Industry 53131, Real Estate Property Managers;
        Providing food services management at institutional, governmental, commercial, or industrial locations--are
         classified in Industry 722310, Food Service Contractors;
        Providing management advice without day-to-day management--are classified in Industry 54161,
         Management Consulting Services;
        Providing both management and operating staff for the complete operation of a client's business, such as a
         hotel, restaurant, mine site, or hospital--are classified according to the industry of the establishment
         operated; and
        Providing only one of the support services (e.g., accounting services) that establishments in this industry
         provide--are classified in the appropriate industry according to the service provided.

5612     Facilities Support Services   T



56121    Facilities Support Services   T

         See industry description for 561210 below.

561210 Facilities Support Services

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing operating staff to perform a combination of
support services within a client's facilities. Establishments in this industry typically provide a combination of
services, such as janitorial, maintenance, trash disposal, guard and security, mail routing, reception, laundry, and
related services to support operations within facilities. These establishments provide operating staff to carry out
these support activities; but are not involved with or responsible for the core business or activities of the client.
Establishments providing facilities (except computer and/or data processing) operation support services and
establishments providing private jail services or operating correctional facilities (i.e., jails) on a contract or fee basis
are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

        Establishments primarily engaged in providing only one of the support services (e.g., janitorial services)
         that establishments in this industry provide are classified in the appropriate industry according to the
         service provided;
        Establishments primarily engaged in providing management and operating staff for the complete operation
         of a client's establishment, such as a hotel, restaurant, mine, or hospital, are classified according to the
         industry of the establishment operated;
        Establishments primarily engaged in providing on-site management and operation of a client's computer
         systems and/or data processing facilities are classified in U.S. Industry 541513, Computer Facilities
         Management Services; and

         Governmental correctional institutions are classified in Industry 922140, Correctional Institutions.

5613      Employment Services     T



56131     Employment Placement Agencies and Executive Search Services           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: 1) listing employment
vacancies and referring or placing applicants for employment; or 2) providing executive search, recruitment, and
placement services.

Illustrative Examples:

Employment agencies
Executive placement services
Executive search services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Supplying their own employees for limited periods of time to supplement the working force of a client's
          business--are classified in Industry 56132, Temporary Help Services;
         Providing human resources and human resource management services to clients--are classified in Industry
          56133, Professional Employer Organizations;
         Providing advice and assistance on human resource and personnel policies, practices, and procedures; and
          employee benefits and compensation systems--are classified in Industry 54161, Management Consulting
          Services; and
         Representing models, entertainers, athletes, and other public figures as their agent or manager--are
          classified in Industry 71141, Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public
          Figures.

561311 Employment Placement Agencies

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in listing employment vacancies and in referring or
placing applicants for employment. The individuals referred or placed are not employees of the employment
agencies.

Illustrative Examples:

Babysitting bureaus (i.e., registries)
Employment registries
Casting agencies or bureaus (i.e., motion picture, theatrical, video)
Model registries
Employment agencies

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing executive search, recruitment, and placement services--are classified in U.S. Industry 561312,
          Executive Search Services;
         Supplying their own employees for limited periods of time to supplement the working force of a client's
          business--are classified in Industry 561320, Temporary Help Services;
         Providing human resources and human resource management services to clients--are classified in Industry
          561330, Professional Employer Organizations; and
         Representing models, entertainers, athletes, and other public figures as their agent or manager--are
          classified in Industry 711410, Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public
          Figures.

561312 Executive Search Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing executive search, recruitment, and
placement services for clients with specific executive and senior management position requirements. The range of
services provided by these establishments may include developing a search strategy and position specification based
on the culture and needs of the client; researching, identifying, screening, and interviewing candidates; verifying
candidate qualifications; and assisting in final offer negotiations and assimilation of the selected candidate. The
individuals identified, recruited, or placed are not employees of the executive search services establishments.

Illustrative Examples:

Senior executive search services
Executive placement services
Executive search services

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Listing employment vacancies and in referring or placing applicants for employment--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 561311, Employment Placement Agencies;
         Supplying their own employees for limited periods of time to supplement the working force of a client's
          business--are classified in Industry 561320, Temporary Help Services;
         Providing human resources and human resource management services to clients--are classified in Industry
          561330, Professional Employer Organizations;
         Providing advice and assistance on human resource and personnel policies, practices, and procedures; and
          employee benefits and compensation systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 541612, Human Resources
          Consulting Services; and
         Representing models, entertainers, athletes, and other public figures as their agent or manager--are
          classified in Industry 711410, Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public
          Figures.

56132     Temporary Help Services       T

          See industry description for 561320 below.

561320 Temporary Help Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in supplying workers to clients' businesses for limited
periods of time to supplement the working force of the client. The individuals provided are employees of the
temporary help service establishment. However, these establishments do not provide direct supervision of their
employees at the clients' work sites.

Illustrative Examples:

Help supply services
Model supply services
Labor (except farm) contractors (i.e., personnel suppliers)
Temporary employment or temporary staffing services
Manpower pools

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing human resources and human resource management services to clients--are classified in Industry
          561330, Professional Employer Organizations;
         Supplying farm labor--are classified in U.S. Industry 115115, Farm Labor Contractors and Crew Leaders;
         Providing operating staff to perform a combination of services to support operations within a client's
          facilities--are classified in Industry 561210, Facilities Support Services;
         Listing employment vacancies and referring or placing applicants for employment--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 561311, Employment Placement Agencies; and

         Representing models, entertainers, athletes, and other public figures as their agent or manager--are
          classified in Industry 711410, Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public
          Figures.

56133     Professional Employer Organizations      T

          See industry description for 561330 below.

561330 Professional Employer Organizations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing human resources and human resource
management services to client businesses. Establishments in this industry operate in a co-employment relationship
with client businesses or organizations and are specialized in performing a wide range of human resource and
personnel management duties, such as payroll, payroll tax, benefits administration, workers' compensation,
unemployment, and human resource administration. Professional employer organizations (PEOs) are responsible
for payroll, including withholding and remitting employment-related taxes, for some or all of the employees of their
clients, and also serve as the employer of those employees for benefits and related purposes.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Supplying their own employees for limited periods of time to supplement the working force of a client's
          business--are classified in Industry 561320, Temporary Help Services; and
         Listing employment vacancies and in referring or placing applicants for employment--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 561311, Employment Placement Agencies.

5614      Business Support Services    T



  This industry group comprises establishments engaged in performing activities that are ongoing routine business
support functions that businesses and organizations traditionally do for themselves.

56141     Document Preparation Services      T

          See industry description for 561410 below.

561410 Document Preparation Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) letter or resume
writing; (2) document editing or proofreading; (3) typing, word processing, or desktop publishing; and (4)
stenography (except court reporting or stenotype recording), transcription, and other secretarial services.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing verbatim reporting and stenotype recording of live legal proceedings and transcribing subsequent
          recorded materials--are classified in U.S. Industry 561492, Court Reporting and Stenotype Services;
         Performing prepress and postpress services in support of printing activities--are classified in Industry
          323120, Support Activities for Printing;
         Providing document translation services--are classified in Industry 541930, Translation and Interpretation
          Services;
         Photocopying, duplicating, and other document copying services, with or without a range of other office
          support services (except printing)--are classified in U.S. Industry 561439, Other Business Service Centers
          (including Copy Shops); and
         Providing document copying services in combination with printing services, with or without a range of
          other office support services, and establishments known as quick or digital printers--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 323111, Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books).

56142     Telephone Call Centers    T

 This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in answering telephone calls and relaying messages
to clients and (2) establishments primarily engaged in providing telemarketing services on a contract or fee basis for
others, such as promoting clients' products or services by telephone; taking orders for clients by telephone; and
soliciting contributions or providing information for clients by telephone. Telemarketing establishments never own
the product or provide the service that they are representing and generally can originate and/or receive calls for
others.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Providing paging and beeper transmission services--are classified in Industry 51721, Wireless
         Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite);
        Organizing and conducting fundraising campaigns on a contract or fee basis, that may include telephone
         solicitation services--are classified in Industry 56149, Other Business Support Services; and
        Gathering, recording, tabulating, and presenting marketing and public opinion data, that may include
         telephone canvassing services--are classified in Industry 54191, Marketing Research and Public Opinion
         Polling.

561421 Telephone Answering Services

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in answering telephone calls and relaying
messages to clients.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in providing paging or beeper transmission services are classified in Industry
517210,Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite).

561422 Telemarketing Bureaus and Other Contact Centers

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating call centers that initiate or receive
communications for others via telephone, facsimile, email, or other communication modes for purposes such as: (1)
promoting clients' products or services, (2) taking orders for clients, (3) soliciting contributions for a client; and (4)
providing information or assistance regarding a client's products or services. These establishments do not own the
product or provide the services they are representing on behalf of clients.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Answering telephone calls and relaying messages to clients--are classified in U.S. Industry 561421,
         Telephone Answering Services;
        Organizing and conducting fundraising campaigns on a contract or fee basis, that may include telephone
         solicitation services--are classified in U.S. Industry 561499, All Other Business Support Services; and
        Gathering, recording, tabulating, and presenting marketing and public opinion data, that may include
         telephone canvassing services--are classified in Industry 541910, Marketing Research and Public Opinion
         Polling.

56143    Business Service Centers    T



 This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in providing mailbox rental and other postal and
mailing services (except direct mail advertising); (2) establishments, generally known as copy centers or shops,
primarily engaged in providing photocopying, duplicating, blueprinting, and other document copying services
without also providing printing services (i.e., offset printing, quick printing, digital printing, prepress services); and
(3) establishments that provide a range of office support services (except printing services), such as mailing services,
document copying services, facsimile services, word processing services, on-site PC rental services, and office
product sales.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Operating contract post offices--are classified in Industry 49111, Postal Service;
        Delivering letters and parcels (except under a universal service obligation)--are classified in Subsector 492,
         Couriers and Messengers;
        Providing voice mailbox services--are classified in Industry 56142, Telephone Call Centers;
        Providing direct mail advertising services--are classified in Industry 54186, Direct Mail Advertising;
        Providing full service office space, whether on a lease or service contract basis--are classified in Industry
         53112, Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses);
        Providing document copying services in combination with printing services, with or without a range of
         other office support services, and establishments known as quick or digital printers--are classified in
         Industry 32311, Printing; and
        Providing only one of the support services (e.g., word processing services) that establishments in this
         industry provide--are classified in the appropriate industry according to the service provided.

561431 Private Mail Centers

 This U.S. industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in providing mailbox rental and other postal
and mailing (except direct mail advertising) services or (2) establishments engaged in providing these mailing
services along with one or more other office support services, such as facsimile services, word processing services,
on-site PC rental services, and office product sales.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Operating contract post offices--are classified in Industry 491110, Postal Service;
        Delivering letters and parcels (except under a universal service obligation)--are classified in Subsector 492,
         Couriers and Messengers;
        Providing voice mailbox services--are classified in U.S. Industry 561421, Telephone Answering Services;
        Providing direct mail advertising services--are classified in Industry 541860, Direct Mail Advertising;
        Providing only one of the support services (e.g., word processing services) that establishments in this
         industry provide--are classified in the appropriate industry according to the service provided; and
        Providing full service office space, whether on a lease or service contract basis--are classified in Industry
         531120, Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses).

561439 Other Business Service Centers (including Copy Shops)

 This U.S. industry comprises (1) establishments generally known as copy centers or shops primarily engaged in
providing photocopying, duplicating, blueprinting, and other document copying services, without also providing
printing services (e.g., offset printing, quick printing, digital printing, prepress services) and (2) establishments
(except private mail centers) engaged in providing a range of office support services (except printing services), such
as document copying services, facsimile services, word processing services, on-site PC rental services, and office
product sales.

Cross-References.

        Establishments engaged in providing document copying services in combination with printing services,
         with or without a range of other office support services, and establishments known as quick or digital
         printers are classified in U.S. Industry 323111, Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books);
        Establishments engaged in providing mailbox rental and other postal and mailing services with or without
         one or more other office support services (except printing) are classified in U.S. Industry 561431, Private
         Mail Centers;
        Establishments exclusively engaged in providing a single office support service (except document copying)
         to clients, but not the range of office support services that establishments in this industry may provide, are
         classified according to the service provided; and
        Establishments engaged in providing full service office space, whether on a lease or service contract basis,
         are classified in Industry 531120, Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses).

56144     Collection Agencies   T

          See industry description for 561440 below.

561440 Collection Agencies

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in collecting payments for claims and remitting
payments collected to their clients.

Illustrative Examples:

Account or delinquent account collection services
Tax collection services on a contract or fee basis
Bill or debt collection services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Repossessing tangible assets--are classified in U.S. Industry 561491, Repossession Services; and
         Providing financing to others by factoring accounts receivables (i.e., assuming the risk of collection and
          credit losses)--are classified in U.S. Industry 522298, All Other Nondepository Credit Intermediation.

56145     Credit Bureaus    T

          See industry description for 561450 below.

561450 Credit Bureaus

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in compiling information, such as credit and
employment histories on individuals and credit histories on businesses, and providing the information to financial
institutions, retailers, and others who have a need to evaluate the creditworthiness of these persons and businesses.

Illustrative Examples:

Credit agencies
Credit rating services
Credit investigation services
Credit reporting bureaus

56149     Other Business Support Services      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing business support services (except
secretarial and other document preparation services; telephone answering or telemarketing services; private mail
services or document copying services conducted as separate activities or in conjunction with other office support
services; monetary debt collection services; and credit reporting services).

Illustrative Examples:

Address bar coding services
Mail presorting services
Bar code imprinting services
Real-time (i.e., simultaneous) closed captioning of live television performances, meetings, conferences
Court reporting services
Repossession services
Fundraising organization services on a contract or fee basis

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing secretarial and other document preparation services--are classified in Industry 56141, Document
          Preparation Services;
         Providing telephone answering or telemarketing services--are classified in Industry 56142, Telephone Call
          Centers;
         Providing private mail services; document copying services (except printing services); and/or a range of
          office support services (except printing)--are classified in Industry 56143, Business Service Centers;
         Providing document copying services in combination with printing services, with or without a range of
          other office support services, and establishments known as quick or digital printers--are classified in
          Industry 32311, Printing;
         Providing monetary debt collection services--are classified in Industry 56144, Collection Agencies;
         Providing credit reporting services--are classified in Industry 56145, Credit Bureaus; and
         Providing film or tape captioning or subtitling services--are classified in Industry 51219, Postproduction
          Services and Other Motion Picture and Video Industries.

561491 Repossession Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repossessing tangible assets (e.g., automobiles,
boats, equipment, planes, furniture, appliances) for the creditor as a result of delinquent debts.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing monetary debt collection services are classified in Industry 561440,
Collection Agencies.

561492 Court Reporting and Stenotype Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing verbatim reporting and stenotype
recording of live legal proceedings and transcribing subsequent recorded materials.

Illustrative Examples:

Court reporting or stenotype recording services
Real-time (i.e., simultaneous) closed captioning of live television performances, meetings, conferences
Public stenography services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing stenotype recording of correspondence, reports, and other documents or in providing document
          transcription services--are classified in Industry 561410, Document Preparation Services; and
         Providing film or tape captioning or subtitling services--are classified in U.S. Industry 512191,
          Teleproduction and Other Postproduction Services.

561499 All Other Business Support Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing business support services (except
secretarial and other document preparation services; telephone answering and telemarketing services; private mail
services or document copying services conducted as separate activities or in conjunction with other office support
services; monetary debt collection services; credit reporting services; repossession services; and court reporting and
stenotype recording services).

Illustrative Examples:

Address bar coding services
Fundraising organization services on a contract or fee basis
Bar code imprinting services
Mail presorting services

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

       Providing secretarial and other document preparation services--are classified in Industry 561410,
        Document Preparation Services;
       Providing telephone answering or telemarketing services--are classified in Industry 56142, Telephone Call
        Centers;
       Providing private mail services, document copying services without printing services and/or a range of
        office support services--are classified in Industry 56143, Business Service Centers;
       Providing document copying services in combination with printing services (with or without one or more
        other office support services) and establishments known as quick or digital printers--are classified in U.S.
        Industry 323111, Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books);
       Providing monetary debt collection services--are classified in Industry 561440, Collection Agencies;
       Providing credit reporting services--are classified in Industry 561450, Credit Bureaus;
       Providing repossession services--are classified in U.S. Industry 561491, Repossession Services; and
       Providing court reporting and stenotype services--are classified in U.S. Industry 561492, Court Reporting
        and Stenotype Services.

5615    Travel Arrangement and Reservation Services         T



56151   Travel Agencies    T

        See industry description for 561510 below.

561510 Travel Agencies

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in acting as agents in selling travel, tour, and
accommodation services to the general public and commercial clients.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

       Arranging and assembling tours that they generally sell through travel agencies or on their own account--
        are classified in Industry 561520, Tour Operators;
       Providing guide services, such as archeological, museum, tourist, hunting, or fishing--are classified in
        Industry 713990, All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries; and
       Providing reservation services (e.g., accommodations, entertainment events, travel)--are classified in U.S.
        Industry 561599, All Other Travel Arrangement and Reservation Services.

56152   Tour Operators    T

        See industry description for 561520 below.

561520 Tour Operators

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in arranging and assembling tours. The tours are sold
through travel agencies or tour operators. Travel or wholesale tour operators are included in this industry.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

       Acting as agents in selling travel, tour, and accommodation services to the general public and commercial
        clients--are classified in Industry 561510, Travel Agencies;
       Conducting scenic and sightseeing tours--are classified in Subsector 487, Scenic and Sightseeing
        Transportation; and
       Providing guide services, such as archeological, museum, tourist, hunting, or fishing--are classified in
        Industry 713990, All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries.

56159   Other Travel Arrangement and Reservation Services         T

  This industry comprises establishments (except travel agencies and tour operators) primarily engaged in providing
travel arrangement and reservation services.

Illustrative Examples:

Condominium time-share exchange services
Road and travel services automobile clubs
Convention or visitors bureaus
Ticket (e.g., airline, bus, cruise ship, sports, theatrical) offices
Reservation (e.g., airline, car rental, hotel, restaurant) services
Ticket (e.g., amusement, sports, theatrical) agencies

Cross-References.

         Establishments primarily engaged in arranging the rental of vacation properties are classified in Industry
          53121, Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers;
         Travel agencies are classified in Industry 56151, Travel Agencies;
         Tour operators are classified in Industry 56152, Tour Operators;
         Automobile clubs (i.e., enthusiasts' clubs) (except road and travel services) are classified in Industry 81341,
          Civic and Social Organizations; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing events, such as business and
          trade shows, conventions, conferences, and meetings (whether or not they manage and provide the staff to
          operate the facilities in which these events take place), are classified in Industry 56192, Convention and
          Trade Show Organizers.

561591 Convention and Visitors Bureaus

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in marketing and promoting communities and
facilities to businesses and leisure travelers through a range of activities, such as assisting organizations in locating
meeting and convention sites; providing travel information on area attractions, lodging accommodations,
restaurants; providing maps; and organizing group tours of local historical, recreational, and cultural attractions.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing events, such as business and trade
shows, conventions, conferences, and meetings (whether or not they manage and provide the staff to operate the
facilities in which these events take place) are classified in Industry 561920, Convention and Trade Show
Organizers.

561599 All Other Travel Arrangement and Reservation Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except travel agencies, tour operators, and convention and visitors
bureaus) primarily engaged in providing travel arrangement and reservation services.

Illustrative Examples:

Condominium time-share exchange services
Ticket (e.g., airline, bus, cruise ship, sports, theatrical) offices
Reservation (e.g., airline, car rental, hotel, restaurant) services
Ticket (e.g., amusement, sports, theatrical) agencies
Road and travel services automobile clubs

Cross-References.

         Establishments primarily engaged in arranging the rental of vacation properties are classified in Industry
          531210, Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers;

         Travel agencies are classified in Industry 561510, Travel Agencies;
         Tour operators are classified in Industry 561520, Tour Operators;
         Convention and visitors bureaus are classified in U.S. Industry 561591, Convention and Visitors Bureaus;
         Establishments primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing events, such as business and
          trade shows, conventions, conferences, and meetings (whether or not they manage and provide the staff to
          operate the facilities in which these events take place) are classified in Industry 561920, Convention and
          Trade Show Organizers; and
         Automobile clubs (i.e., enthusiasts' clubs) (except road and travel services) are classified in Industry
          813410, Civic and Social Organizations.

5616      Investigation and Security Services    T



56161     Investigation, Guard, and Armored Car Services        T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing one or more of the following: (1)
investigation and detective services; (2) guard and patrol services; and (3) picking up and delivering money,
receipts, or other valuable items with personnel and equipment to protect such properties while in transit.

Illustrative Examples:

Armored car services
Private detective services
Bodyguard services
Security guard services
Polygraph services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing credit checks--are classified in Industry 56145, Credit Bureaus; and
      Selling, installing, monitoring, and maintaining security systems and devices (e.g., burglar and fire alarm
          systems)--are classified in Industry 56162, Security Systems Services.

561611 Investigation Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing investigation and detective services.

Illustrative Examples:

Fingerprinting services
Private detective services
Polygraph services
Private investigative services

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing credit checks are classified in Industry 561450, Credit Bureaus.

561612 Security Guards and Patrol Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing guard and patrol services, such as
bodyguard, guard dog, and parking security services.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in selling, installing, monitoring, and maintaining security systems and devices,
such as burglar and fire alarms and locking devices, are classified in Industry 56162, Security Systems Services.

561613 Armored Car Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in picking up and delivering money, receipts, or
other valuable items. These establishments maintain personnel and equipment to protect such properties while in
transit.

56162    Security Systems Services    T



  This industry comprises establishments engaged in (1) selling security systems, such as burglar and fire alarms and
locking devices, along with installation, repair, or monitoring services or (2) remote monitoring of electronic
security alarm systems.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Selling security systems for buildings without installation, repair, or monitoring services--are classified in
         Sector 42, Wholesale Trade or Sector 44-45, Retail Trade;
        Retailing motor vehicle security systems with or without installation or repair services--are classified in
         Industry 44131, Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores; and
        Providing key duplication services--are classified in Industry 81149, Other Personal and Household Goods
         Repair and Maintenance.

561621 Security Systems Services (except Locksmiths)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) selling security alarm systems, such as
burglar and fire alarms, along with installation, repair, or monitoring services or (2) remote monitoring of electronic
security alarm systems.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Selling security alarm systems for buildings, without installation, repair, or monitoring services--are
         classified in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade or Sector 44-45, Retail Trade; and
        Retailing motor vehicle security systems with or without installation or repair services--are classified in
         Industry 441310, Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores.

561622 Locksmiths

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) selling mechanical or electronic locking
devices, safes, and security vaults, along with installation, repair, rebuilding, or adjusting services or (2) installing,
repairing, rebuilding, and adjusting mechanical or electronic locking devices, safes, and security vaults.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Selling security systems, such as locking devices, safes, and vaults, without installation or maintenance
         services--are classified in Sector 42, Wholesale Trade or Sector 44-45, Retail Trade; and
        Providing key duplication services--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household
         Goods Repair and Maintenance.

5617     Services to Buildings and Dwellings    T



56171    Exterminating and Pest Control Services       T

         See industry description for 561710 below.

561710 Exterminating and Pest Control Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in exterminating and controlling birds, mosquitoes,
rodents, termites, and other insects and pests (except for crop production and forestry production). Establishments
providing fumigation services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing pest control for crop or forestry production are classified in
Subsector 115, Support Activities for Agriculture and Forestry.

56172     Janitorial Services   T

          See industry description for 561720 below.

561720 Janitorial Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in cleaning building interiors, interiors of transportation
equipment (e.g., aircraft, rail cars, ships), and/or windows.

Illustrative Examples:

Custodial services
Service station cleaning and degreasing services
Housekeeping (i.e., cleaning) services
Washroom sanitation services
Maid (i.e., cleaning) services

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Cleaning building exteriors (except sandblasting and window cleaning) or chimneys--are classified in
          Industry 561790, Other Services to Buildings and Dwellings; and
         Sandblasting building exteriors--are classified in Industry 238990, All Other Specialty Trade Contractors.

56173     Landscaping Services      T

          See industry description for 561730 below.

561730 Landscaping Services

  This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in providing landscape care and maintenance
services and/or installing trees, shrubs, plants, lawns, or gardens and (2) establishments primarily engaged in
providing these services along with the design of landscape plans and/or the construction (i.e., installation) of
walkways, retaining walls, decks, fences, ponds, and similar structures.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing artificial turf or in constructing (i.e., installing) walkways, retaining walls, decks, fences, ponds,
          or similar structures--are classified in Sector 23, Construction;
         Planning and designing the development of land areas for projects, such as parks and other recreational
          areas; airports; highways; hospitals; schools; land subdivisions; and commercial, industrial, and residential
          areas (without also installing trees, shrubs, plants, lawns/gardens, walkways, retaining walls, decks, and
          similar items or structures)--are classified in Industry 541320, Landscape Architectural Services; and
         Retailing landscaping materials and providing the installation and maintenance of these materials--are
          classified in Industry 444220, Nursery, Garden Center, and Farm Supply Stores.

56174     Carpet and Upholstery Cleaning Services          T

          See industry description for 561740 below.

561740 Carpet and Upholstery Cleaning Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in cleaning and dyeing used rugs, carpets, and
upholstery.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Rug repair not associated with rug cleaning--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and
          Household Goods Repair and Maintenance; and
         Reupholstering and repairing furniture--are classified in Industry 811420, Reupholstery and Furniture
          Repair.

56179     Other Services to Buildings and Dwellings      T

          See industry description for 561790 below.

561790 Other Services to Buildings and Dwellings

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing services to buildings and dwellings (except
exterminating and pest control; janitorial; landscaping care and maintenance; and carpet and upholstery cleaning).

Illustrative Examples:

Building exterior cleaning services (except sandblasting and window cleaning)
Swimming pool cleaning and maintenance services
Chimney cleaning services
Ventilation duct cleaning services
Drain or gutter cleaning services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing exterminating and pest control services--are classified in Industry 561710, Exterminating and
          Pest Control Services;
         Providing janitorial services--are classified in Industry 561720, Janitorial Services;
         Providing landscaping care and maintenance--are classified in Industry 561730, Landscaping Services;
         Providing carpet and upholstery cleaning services--are classified in Industry 561740, Carpet and
          Upholstery Cleaning Services; and
         Sandblasting building exteriors--are classified in Industry 238990, All Other Specialty Trade Contractors.

5619      Other Support Services    T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing day-to-day business and other
organizational support services (except office administrative services; facilities support services; employment
services; business support services; travel arrangement and reservation services; security and investigation services;
and services to buildings and dwellings).

56191     Packaging and Labeling Services     T

          See industry description for 561910 below.

561910 Packaging and Labeling Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in packaging client-owned materials. The services may
include labeling and/or imprinting the package.

Illustrative Examples:

Apparel and textile folding and packaging services
Kit assembling and packaging services

Blister packaging services
Shrink-wrapping services
Gift wrapping services

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Processing client-owned materials into a different product, such as mixing water and concentrate to
          produce soft drinks--are classified in Sector 31-33, Manufacturing;
         Providing aerosol packaging services--are classified in U.S. Industry 325998, All Other Miscellaneous
          Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing;
         Providing packing and crating services incidental to transportation--are classified in U.S. Industry 488991,
          Packing and Crating;
         Providing warehousing services, as well as packaging or other logistics services--are classified in Industry
          Group 4931, Warehousing and Storage; and
         Providing packing and crating services for agricultural products--are classified in U.S. Industry 115114,
          Postharvest Crop Activities (except Cotton Ginning).

56192     Convention and Trade Show Organizers         T

          See industry description for 561920 below.

561920 Convention and Trade Show Organizers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing events, such
as business and trade shows, conventions, conferences, and meetings (whether or not they manage and provide the
staff to operate the facilities in which these events take place).

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing live performing arts productions,
sports events, and similar events, such as festivals (whether or not they manage and provide the staff to operate the
facilities in which these events take place), are classified in Industry Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts,
Sports, and Similar Events.

56199     All Other Support Services     T

          See industry description for 561990 below.

561990 All Other Support Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing day-to-day business and other
organizational support services (except office administrative services, facilities support services, employment
services, business support services, travel arrangement and reservation services, security and investigation services,
services to buildings and other structures, packaging and labeling services, and convention and trade show
organizing services).

Illustrative Examples:

Bartering services
Flagging (i.e., traffic control) services
Bottle exchanges
Float decorating services
Cloth cutting, bolting, or winding for the trade
Inventory taking services
Contract meter reading services
Lumber grading services
Diving services on a contract or fee basis

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing office administrative services--are classified in Industry 561110, Office Administrative Services;
         Providing facilities support services--are classified in Industry 561210, Facilities Support Services;
         Providing employment services--are classified in Industry Group 5613, Employment Services;
         Providing business support services--are classified in Industry Group 5614, Business Support Services;
         Providing travel arrangement and reservation services--are classified in Industry Group 5615, Travel
          Arrangement and Reservation Services;
         Providing security and investigation services--are classified in Industry Group 5616, Investigation and
          Security Services;
         Providing services to buildings and other structures--are classified in Industry Group 5617, Services to
          Buildings and Dwellings;
         Providing packaging and labeling services--are classified in Industry 561910, Packaging and Labeling
          Services; and
         Organizing, promoting, and/or managing conferences, conventions, and trade shows (whether or not they
          manage and provide the staff to operate the facilities in which these events take place)--are classified in
          Industry 561920, Convention and Trade Show Organizers.

562       Waste Management and Remediation Services           T



  Industries in the Waste Management and Remediation Services subsector group establishments engaged in the
collection, treatment, and disposal of waste materials. This includes establishments engaged in local hauling of
waste materials; operating materials recovery facilities (i.e., those that sort recyclable materials from the trash
stream); providing remediation services (i.e., those that provide for the cleanup of contaminated buildings, mine
sites, soil, or ground water); and providing septic pumping and other miscellaneous waste management services.
There are three industry groups within the subsector that separate these activities into waste collection, waste
treatment and disposal, and remediation and other waste management.
  Excluded from this subsector are establishments primarily engaged in collecting, treating, and disposing waste
through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities that are classified in Industry 22132, Sewage Treatment
Facilities and establishments primarily engaged in long-distance hauling of waste materials that are classified in
Industry 48423, Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance. Also, there are some activities
that appear to be related to waste management, but that are not included in this subsector. For example,
establishments primarily engaged in providing waste management consulting services are classified in Industry
54162, Environmental Consulting Services.

5621      Waste Collection

56211     Waste Collection

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) collecting and/or hauling hazardous waste,
nonhazardous waste, and/or recyclable materials within a local area and/or (2) operating hazardous or nonhazardous
waste transfer stations. Hazardous waste collection establishments may be responsible for the identification,
treatment, packaging, and labeling of waste for the purposes of transport.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Long-distance trucking of waste--are classified in Industry 48423, Specialized Freight (except Used Goods)
          Trucking, Long-Distance;
         Operating facilities for separating and sorting recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e.,
          garbage) and/or for sorting commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, and metal cans, into
          distinct categories--are classified in Industry 56292, Materials Recovery Facilities; and
         Collecting and/or hauling in combination with disposal of waste materials--are classified in Industry 56221,
          Waste Treatment and Disposal.

562111 Solid Waste Collection

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) collecting
and/or hauling nonhazardous solid waste (i.e., garbage) within a local area; (2) operating nonhazardous solid waste
transfer stations; and (3) collecting and/or hauling mixed recyclable materials within a local area.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Long-distance trucking of waste--are classified in Industry 484230, Specialized Freight (except Used
         Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance;
        Collecting and/or hauling in combination with disposal of nonhazardous waste materials--are classified in
         Industry 56221, Waste Treatment and Disposal;
        Collecting and/or hauling hazardous waste within a local area and/or operating hazardous waste transfer
         stations--are classified in U.S. Industry 562112, Hazardous Waste Collection;
        Collecting and removing debris, such as brush or rubble, within a local area--are classified in U.S. Industry
         562119, Other Waste Collection; and
        Operating facilities for separating and sorting recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e.,
         garbage) and/or for sorting commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, and metal cans, into
         distinct categories--are classified in Industry 562920, Materials Recovery Facilities.

562112 Hazardous Waste Collection

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in collecting and/or hauling hazardous waste
within a local area and/or operating hazardous waste transfer stations. Hazardous waste collection establishments
may be responsible for the identification, treatment, packaging, and labeling of waste for the purposes of transport.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Long-distance trucking of waste--are classified in Industry 484230, Specialized Freight (except Used
         Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance;
        Collecting and/or hauling in combination with disposal of hazardous waste materials--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 562211, Hazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal;
        Collecting and/or hauling nonhazardous solid waste (i.e., garbage) and/or recyclable materials within a
         local area and/or operating nonhazardous solid waste transfer stations--are classified in U.S. Industry
         562111, Solid Waste Collection; and
        Collecting and removing debris, such as brush or rubble, within a local area--are classified in U.S. Industry
         562119, Other Waste Collection.

562119 Other Waste Collection

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in collecting and/or hauling waste (except
nonhazardous solid waste and hazardous waste) within a local area. Establishments engaged in brush or rubble
removal services are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Long-distance trucking of waste--are classified in Industry 484230, Specialized Freight (except Used
         Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance;
        Collecting and/or hauling in combination with disposal of waste materials--are classified in Industry Group
         5622, Waste Treatment and Disposal;
        Collecting and/or hauling nonhazardous solid waste (i.e., garbage) or mixed recyclable materials within a
         local area or operating nonhazardous solid waste transfer stations--are classified in U.S. Industry 562111,
         Solid Waste Collection;
        Collecting and/or hauling hazardous waste within a local area or operating hazardous waste transfer
         stations--are classified in U.S. Industry 562112, Hazardous Waste Collection; and
        Operating facilities for separating and sorting recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e.,
         garbage) and/or for sorting commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, and metal cans, into
         distinct categories--are classified in Industry 562920, Materials Recovery Facilities.

5622     Waste Treatment and Disposal

56221    Waste Treatment and Disposal

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating waste treatment or disposal facilities
(except sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities) or (2) the combined activity of collecting and/or hauling of
waste materials within a local area and operating waste treatment or disposal facilities. Waste combustors or
incinerators (including those that may produce byproducts, such as electricity), solid waste landfills, and compost
dumps are included in this industry.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Collecting, treating, and disposing waste through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities--are
         classified in Industry 22132, Sewage Treatment Facilities; and
        Manufacturing compost--are classified in Industry 32531, Fertilizer Manufacturing.

562211 Hazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating treatment and/or disposal facilities
for hazardous waste or (2) the combined activity of collecting and/or hauling of hazardous waste materials within a
local area and operating treatment or disposal facilities for hazardous waste.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Operating landfills for the disposal of nonhazardous solid waste--are classified in U.S. Industry 562212,
         Solid Waste Landfill;
        Operating combustors and incinerators for the disposal of nonhazardous solid waste--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 562213, Solid Waste Combustors and Incinerators;
        Collecting, treating, and disposing waste through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities--are
         classified in Industry 221320, Sewage Treatment Facilities; and
        Operating nonhazardous waste treatment and disposal facilities (except landfills, combustors, incinerators,
         and sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities)--are classified in U.S. Industry 562219, Other
         Nonhazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal.

562212 Solid Waste Landfill

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating landfills for the disposal of
nonhazardous solid waste or (2) the combined activity of collecting and/or hauling nonhazardous waste materials
within a local area and operating landfills for the disposal of nonhazardous solid waste. These establishments may
produce byproducts, such as methane.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Operating treatment and/or disposal facilities for hazardous waste--are classified in U.S. Industry 562211,
         Hazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal;
        Operating combustors and incinerators for the disposal of nonhazardous solid waste--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 562213, Solid Waste Combustors and Incinerators;
        Collecting, treating, and disposing waste through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities--are
         classified in Industry 221320, Sewage Treatment Facilities;
        Operating nonhazardous waste treatment and disposal facilities (except landfills, combustors, incinerators,
         and sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities)--are classified in U.S. Industry 562219, Other
         Nonhazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal; and
        Manufacturing compost--are classified in U.S. Industry 325314, Fertilizer (Mixing Only) Manufacturing.

562213 Solid Waste Combustors and Incinerators

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating combustors and incinerators for the
disposal of nonhazardous solid waste. These establishments may produce byproducts, such as electricity and steam.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Operating treatment and/or disposal facilities for hazardous waste--are classified in U.S. Industry 562211,
         Hazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal;
        Operating landfills for the disposal of nonhazardous solid waste--are classified in U.S. Industry 562212,
         Solid Waste Landfill;
        Collecting, treating, and disposing waste through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities--are
         classified in Industry 221320, Sewage Treatment Facilities; and
        Operating nonhazardous waste treatment and disposal facilities (except landfills, combustors, incinerators,
         and sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities)--are classified in U.S. Industry 562219, Other
         Nonhazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal.

562219 Other Nonhazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating nonhazardous waste treatment and
disposal facilities (except landfills, combustors, incinerators and sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities) or (2)
the combined activity of collecting and/or hauling of nonhazardous waste materials within a local area and operating
waste treatment or disposal facilities (except landfills, combustors, incinerators and sewer systems, or sewage
treatment facilities). Compost dumps are included in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Operating landfills for the disposal of nonhazardous solid waste--are classified in U.S. Industry 562212,
         Solid Waste Landfill;
        Operating combustors and incinerators for the disposal of nonhazardous solid waste--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 562213, Solid Waste Combustors and Incinerators;
        Collecting, treating, and disposing waste through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities--are
         classified in Industry 221320, Sewage Treatment Facilities; and
        Manufacturing compost--are classified in U.S. Industry 325314, Fertilizer (Mixing Only) Manufacturing.

5629     Remediation and Other Waste Management Services

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in remediation and other waste management
services (except waste collection, waste treatment and disposal, and waste management consulting services).

56291    Remediation Services
         See industry description for 562910 below.

562910 Remediation Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) remediation and
cleanup of contaminated buildings, mine sites, soil, or ground water; (2) integrated mine reclamation activities,
including demolition, soil remediation, waste water treatment, hazardous material removal, contouring land, and
revegetation; and (3) asbestos, lead paint, and other toxic material abatement.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Developing remedial action plans--are classified in Industry 541620, Environmental Consulting Services;
        Excavating soil--are classified in Industry 238910, Site Preparation Contractors;
        Individual activities as part of a reclamation or remediation project--are classified according to the primary
         activity;

         Building modifications to alleviate radon gas--are classified in Industry 238990, All Other Specialty Trade
          Contractors; and
         Collecting, treating, and disposing waste water through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities--are
          classified in Industry 221320, Sewage Treatment Facilities.

56292     Materials Recovery Facilities
          See industry description for 562920 below.

562920 Materials Recovery Facilities

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating facilities for separating and sorting
recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e., garbage) and/or (2) operating facilities where
commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, used beverage cans, and metals, are sorted into distinct
categories.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in merchant wholesaling automotive, industrial, and other recyclable materials
are classified in Industry 423930, Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers.

56299     All Other Waste Management Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in waste management services (except waste collection,
waste treatment and disposal, remediation, operation of materials recovery facilities, and waste management
consulting services).

Illustrative Examples:

Beach cleaning and maintenance services
Pumping (i.e., cleaning) cesspools, portable toilets, or septic tanks
Cesspool cleaning services
Sewer cleaning and rodding services
Portable toilet renting and/or servicing
Sewer or storm basin cleanout services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Collecting and/or hauling waste within a local area--are classified in Industry 56211, Waste Collection;
         Long-distance trucking of waste--are classified in Industry 48423, Specialized Freight (except Used Goods)
          Trucking, Long-Distance;
         Operating treatment or disposal facilities (except sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities) for waste--
          are classified in Industry 56221, Waste Treatment and Disposal;
         Collecting, treating, and disposing waste through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities--are
          classified in Industry 22132, Sewage Treatment Facilities;
         Remediation and cleanup of contaminated buildings, mine sites, soil, or ground water--are classified in
          Industry 56291, Remediation Services;
         Operating facilities for separating and sorting recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e.,
          garbage) or where commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, and metal cans are sorted into
          distinct categories--are classified in Industry 56292, Materials Recovery Facilities;
         Installing septic tanks--are classified in Industry 23891, Site Preparation Contractors; and
         Providing waste management consulting services, such as developing remedial action plans--are classified
          in Industry 54162, Environmental Consulting Services.

562991 Septic Tank and Related Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) pumping (i.e., cleaning) septic tanks and
cesspools and/or (2) renting and/or servicing portable toilets.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Installing septic tanks--are classified in Industry 238910, Site Preparation Contractors; and
         Cleaning and rodding sewers and catch basins--are classified in U.S. Industry 562998, All Other
          Miscellaneous Waste Management Services.

562998 All Other Miscellaneous Waste Management Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing waste management services (except
waste collection, waste treatment and disposal, remediation, operation of materials recovery facilities, septic tank
pumping and related services, and waste management consulting services).

Illustrative Examples:

Beach cleaning and maintenance services
Sewer or storm basin cleanout services
Catch basin cleaning services
Tank cleaning and disposal services, commercial or industrial
Sewer cleaning and rodding services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Collecting and/or hauling waste within a local area--are classified in Industry 56211, Waste Collection;
         Long-distance trucking of waste--are classified in Industry 484230, Specialized Freight (except Used
          Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance;
         Operating treatment or disposal facilities (except sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities) for waste--
          are classified in Industry 56221, Waste Treatment and Disposal;
         Collecting, treating, and disposing waste through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities--are
          classified in Industry 221320, Sewage Treatment Facilities;
         The remediation and cleanup of contaminated buildings, mine sites, soil, or ground water--are classified in
          Industry 562910, Remediation Services;
         Operating facilities for separating and sorting recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e.,
          garbage) or for sorting commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, and metal cans, into
          distinct categories--are classified in Industry 562920, Materials Recovery Facilities;
         Pumping (i.e., cleaning) cesspools, portable toilets, and septic tanks or renting portable toilets--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 562991, Septic Tank and Related Services; and
         Providing waste management consulting services, such as developing remedial action plans--are classified
          in Industry 541620, Environmental Consulting Services.

                                   Sector 61--Educational Services                   T


                                               The Sector as a Whole

  The Educational Services sector comprises establishments that provide instruction and training in a wide variety of
subjects. This instruction and training is provided by specialized establishments, such as schools, colleges,
universities, and training centers. These establishments may be privately owned and operated for profit or not for
profit, or they may be publicly owned and operated. They may also offer food and/or accommodation services to
their students.
  Educational services are usually delivered by teachers or instructors that explain, tell, demonstrate, supervise, and
direct learning. Instruction is imparted in diverse settings, such as educational institutions, the workplace, or the
home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-
learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation
methods. It can be adapted to the particular needs of the students, for example sign language can replace verbal
language for teaching students with hearing impairments. All industries in the sector share this commonality of
process, namely, labor inputs of instructors with the requisite subject matter expertise and teaching ability.

611       Educational Services   T



  Industries in the Educational Services subsector provide instruction and training in a wide variety of subjects. The
instruction and training is provided by specialized establishments, such as schools, colleges, universities, and
training centers.
  The subsector is structured according to level and type of educational services. Elementary and secondary
schools, junior colleges and colleges, universities, and professional schools correspond to a recognized series of
formal levels of education designated by diplomas, associate degrees (including equivalent certificates), and
degrees. The remaining industry groups are based more on the type of instruction or training offered and the levels
are not always as formally defined. The establishments are often highly specialized, many offering instruction in a
very limited subject matter, for example ski lessons or one specific computer software package. Within the sector,
the level and types of training that are required of the instructors and teachers vary depending on the industry.
  Establishments that manage schools and other educational establishments on a contractual basis are classified in
this subsector if they both manage the operation and provide the operating staff. Such establishments are classified
in the Educational Services subsector based on the type of facility managed and operated.

6111      Elementary and Secondary Schools      T



61111     Elementary and Secondary Schools
          See industry description for 611110 below.

611110 Elementary and Secondary Schools

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in furnishing academic courses and associated course
work that comprise a basic preparatory education. A basic preparatory education ordinarily constitutes kindergarten
through 12th grade. This industry includes school boards and school districts.

Illustrative Examples:

Elementary schools
Parochial schools, elementary or secondary
High schools
Primary schools
Kindergartens
Schools for the physically disabled, elementary or secondary
Military academies, elementary or secondary

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in providing preschool or prekindergarten education are classified in
          Industry 624410, Child Day Care Services; and
      Military academies, college level are classified in Industry 611310, Colleges, Universities, and Professional
          Schools.

6112      Junior Colleges   T



61121     Junior Colleges   T

          See industry description for 611210 below.

611210 Junior Colleges

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in furnishing academic, or academic and technical,
courses and granting associate degrees, certificates, or diplomas below the baccalaureate level. The requirement for
admission to an associate or equivalent degree program is at least a high school diploma or equivalent general
academic training. Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's training
facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence,
television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by these
establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.

6113      Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools     T



61131     Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools     T

          See industry description for 611310 below.

611310 Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in furnishing academic courses and granting degrees at
baccalaureate or graduate levels. The requirement for admission is at least a high school diploma or equivalent
general academic training. Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's
training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as
correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by
these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.

Illustrative Examples:

Colleges (except junior colleges)
Theological seminaries offering baccalaureate or graduate degrees
Military academies, college level
Universities
Professional schools (e.g., business administration, dental, law, medical)

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in furnishing academic, or academic and technical, courses and granting
associate degrees, certificates, or diplomas below the baccalaureate level are classified in Industry 611210, Junior
Colleges.

6114      Business Schools and Computer and Management Training             T



61141     Business and Secretarial Schools      T

          See industry description for 611410 below.

611410 Business and Secretarial Schools

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering courses in office procedures and secretarial
and stenographic skills and may offer courses in basic office skills, such as word processing. In addition, these
establishments may offer such classes as office machine operation, reception, communications, and other skills
designed for individuals pursuing a clerical or secretarial career. Instruction may be provided in diverse settings,
such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and
through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning
methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Offering computer training (except computer repair)--are classified in Industry 611420, Computer
          Training;
      Offering academic degrees (e.g., baccalaureate, graduate level) in business education--are classified in
          Industry 611310, Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools; and
      Offering training in the maintenance and repair of computers--are classified in U.S. Industry 611519, Other
          Technical and Trade Schools.

61142     Computer Training      T

          See industry description for 611420 below.

611420 Computer Training

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in conducting computer training (except computer
repair), such as computer programming, software packages, computerized business systems, computer electronics
technology, computer operations, and local area network management. Instruction may be provided in diverse
settings, such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the
home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-
learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation
methods.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Offering training in the maintenance and repair of computers--are classified in U.S. Industry 611519, Other
          Technical and Trade Schools; and
      Computer retailing, wholesaling, or computer system designing that may also provide computer training--
          are classified in their appropriate industries.

61143     Professional and Management Development Training              T

          See industry description for 611430 below.

611430 Professional and Management Development Training

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering an array of short duration courses and
seminars for management and professional development. Training for career development may be provided directly
to individuals or through employers' training programs; and courses may be customized or modified to meet the
special needs of customers. Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's
training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as
correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by
these establishments may include the use of simulators and simulation methods.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Advising clients on human resource and training issues without providing the training--are classified in
          U.S. Industry 541612, Human Resources Consulting Services; and

      Offering academic degrees (e.g., baccalaureate, graduate level)--are classified in Industry 611310,
          Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools.

6115      Technical and Trade Schools    T



61151     Technical and Trade Schools    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering vocational and technical training in a variety
of technical subjects and trades. The training often leads to job-specific certification. Instruction may be provided in
diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational institutions, the workplace, or
the home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet, or other electronic and
distance-learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the use of simulators and
simulation methods.

Illustrative Examples:

Apprenticeship training programs
Graphic arts schools
Aviation and flight training instruction schools
Modeling schools
Computer repair training
Nursing schools (except academic)
Cosmetology schools
Real estate schools
Electronic equipment repair training
Truck driving schools

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Offering courses in office procedures and secretarial and stenographic skills--are classified in Industry
          61141, Business and Secretarial Schools;
      Offering computer training (except computer repair)--are classified in Industry 61142, Computer Training;
      Offering professional and management development training--are classified in Industry 61143, Professional
          and Management Development Training;
      Offering academic courses that may also offer technical and trade courses--are classified according to the
          type of school;
      Specialty air transportation services which may also provide flight training--are classified in Industry
          48121, Nonscheduled Air Transportation; and
      Offering registered nursing training--are classified in Industry 61121, Junior Colleges or Industry 61131,
          Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools.

611511 Cosmetology and Barber Schools

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering training in barbering, hair styling, or
the cosmetic arts, such as makeup or skin care. These schools provide job-specific certification.

611512 Flight Training

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering aviation and flight training. These
establishments may offer vocational training, recreational training, or both.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in specialty air transportation services that may also provide flight training are
classified in U.S. Industry 481219, Other Nonscheduled Air Transportation.

611513 Apprenticeship Training

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering apprenticeship training programs.
These programs involve applied training as well as course work.

611519 Other Technical and Trade Schools

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering job or career vocational or technical
courses (except cosmetology and barber training, aviation and flight training, and apprenticeship training). The
curriculums offered by these schools are highly structured and specialized and lead to job-specific certification.

Illustrative Examples:

Bartending schools
Modeling schools
Broadcasting schools
Real estate schools
Computer repair training
Truck driving schools
Graphic arts schools

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Offering courses in office procedures and secretarial and stenographic skills--are classified in Industry
          611410, Business and Secretarial Schools;
      Offering computer training (except computer repair)--are classified in Industry 611420, Computer
          Training;
      Offering professional and management development training--are classified in Industry 611430,
          Professional and Management Development Training;
      Offering registered nursing training with academic degrees (e.g., associate baccalaureate)--are classified in
          Industry 611210, Junior Colleges or in Industry 611310, College, Universities, and Professional Schools;
      Offering aviation and flight training--are classified in U.S. Industry 611512, Flight Training;
      Offering cosmetology and barber training--are classified in U.S. Industry 611511, Cosmetology and Barber
          Schools;
      Offering academic courses that may also offer technical and trade courses--are classified according to the
          type of school; and
      Offering apprenticeship training programs--are classified in U.S. Industry 611513, Apprenticeship
          Training.

6116      Other Schools and Instruction   T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering or providing instruction (except
academic schools, colleges, and universities; and business, computer, management, technical, or trade instruction).
Instruction may be provided in diverse settings, such as the establishment's or client's training facilities, educational
institutions, the workplace, or the home, and through diverse means, such as correspondence, television, the Internet,
or other electronic and distance-learning methods. The training provided by these establishments may include the
use of simulators and simulation methods.

61161     Fine Arts Schools  T

          See industry description for 611610 below.

611610 Fine Arts Schools

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering instruction in the arts, including dance, art,
drama, and music.

Illustrative Examples:

Art (except commercial and graphic) instruction
Music instruction (e.g., piano, guitar)
Dance instruction
Music schools (except academic)
Dance studios
Performing arts schools (except academic)
Drama schools (except academic)
Photography schools (except commercial photography)
Fine arts schools (except academic)

Cross-References.

      Establishments offering high school diplomas or academic degrees (i.e., even if they specialize in fine arts)
          are classified elsewhere in this subsector according to the type of school; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in offering courses in commercial and graphic arts and commercial
          photography are classified in U.S. Industry 611519, Other Technical and Trade Schools.

61162     Sports and Recreation Instruction      T

          See industry description for 611620 below.

611620 Sports and Recreation Instruction

  This industry comprises establishments, such as camps and schools, primarily engaged in offering instruction in
athletic activities to groups of individuals. Overnight and day sports instruction camps are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Camps, sports instruction
Professional sports instructors (i.e., not participating in sporting events)
Cheerleading instruction
Riding instruction academies or schools
Gymnastics instruction
Sports (e.g., baseball, basketball, football, golf) instruction
Martial arts instruction, camps or schools
Swimming instruction

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in operating overnight recreational camps that may offer some athletic
          instruction in addition to other activities are classified in U.S. Industry 721214, Recreational and Vacation
          Camps (except Campgrounds);
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating sports and recreation establishments that also offer athletic
          instruction are classified in Sector 71, Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation;
      Independent (i.e., freelance) athletes engaged in providing sports instruction and participating in spectator
          sporting events are classified in U.S. Industry 711219, Other Spectator Sports; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in offering academic courses that may also offer athletic instruction are
          classified according to the type of school.

61163     Language Schools    T

          See industry description for 611630 below.

611630 Language Schools

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering foreign language instruction (including sign
language). These establishments are designed to offer language instruction ranging from conversational skills for
personal enrichment to intensive training courses for career or educational opportunities.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Offering academic courses that may also offer language instruction--are classified according to type of
          school; and
      Providing translation and interpretation services--are classified in Industry 541930, Translation and
          Interpretation Services.

61169     All Other Schools and Instruction    T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering instruction (except business, computer,
management, technical, trade, fine arts, athletic, and language instruction). Also excluded from this industry are
academic schools, colleges, and universities.

Illustrative Examples:

Academic tutoring services
Public speaking training
Automobile driving schools
Speed reading instruction
Exam preparation services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Offering elementary and secondary school instruction--are classified in Industry 61111, Elementary and
          Secondary Schools;
      Offering junior college instruction--are classified in Industry 61121, Junior Colleges;
      Offering college, university, and professional school instruction with academic degrees (e.g., baccalaureate,
          graduate)--are classified in Industry 61131, Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools;
      Offering business, computer (except computer repair), and management training--are classified in Industry
          Group 6114, Business Schools and Computer and Management Training;
      Offering technical and trade school instruction (e.g., computer repair and maintenance)--are classified in
          Industry 61151, Technical and Trade Schools;
      Offering fine arts instruction--are classified in Industry 61161, Fine Arts Schools;
      Offering sports and recreation instruction--are classified in Industry 61162, Sports and Recreation
          Instruction; and
      Offering language instruction--are classified in Industry 61163, Language Schools.

611691 Exam Preparation and Tutoring

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering preparation for standardized
examinations and/or academic tutoring services.

Illustrative Examples:

Academic tutoring services
Learning centers offering remedial courses
College board preparation centers
Professional examination review instruction

611692 Automobile Driving Schools

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering automobile driving instruction.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in offering truck and bus driving instruction are classified in U.S. Industry
611519, Other Technical and Trade Schools.

611699 All Other Miscellaneous Schools and Instruction

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in offering instruction (except business, computer,
management, technical, trade, fine arts, athletic, language instruction, tutoring, and automobile driving instruction).
Also excluded from this industry are academic schools, colleges, and universities.

Illustrative Examples:

Public speaking training
Survival training
Speed reading instruction

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Offering elementary and secondary school instruction--are classified in Industry 611110, Elementary and
          Secondary Schools;
      Offering junior college instruction--are classified in Industry 611210, Junior Colleges;
      Offering college, university, and professional school instruction with academic degrees (e.g., baccalaureate,
          graduate)--are classified in Industry 611310, Colleges, Universities, and Professional Schools;
      Offering business, computer (except computer repair), and management training--are classified in Industry
          Group 6114, Business Schools and Computer and Management Training;
      Offering technical and trade school instruction (e.g., computer repair and maintenance)--are classified in
          Industry 61151, Technical and Trade Schools;
      Offering fine arts instruction--are classified in Industry 611610, Fine Arts Schools;
      Offering sports and recreation instruction--are classified in Industry 611620, Sports and Recreation
          Instruction;
      Offering language instruction--are classified in Industry 611630, Language Schools;
      Offering exam preparation and tutoring services--are classified in U.S. Industry 611691, Exam Preparation
          and Tutoring; and
      Offering automobile driving instruction--are classified in U.S. Industry 611692, Automobile Driving
          Schools.

6117      Educational Support Services    T



61171     Educational Support Services    T

          See industry description for 611710 below.

611710 Educational Support Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing noninstructional services that support
educational processes or systems.

Illustrative Examples:

Educational consultants

Educational testing services
Educational guidance counseling services
Student exchange programs
Educational testing evaluation services

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

    Providing job training for the unemployed, underemployed, physically disabled, and persons who have a
        job market disadvantage because of lack of education or job skills--are classified in Industry 624310,
        Vocational Rehabilitation Services; and
    Conducting research and analyses in cognitive development--are classified in Industry 541720, Research
        and Development in the Social Sciences and Humanities.

                         Sector 62--Health Care and Social Assistance                              T


                                                 The Sector as a Whole

  The Health Care and Social Assistance sector comprises establishments providing health care and social assistance
for individuals. The sector includes both health care and social assistance because it is sometimes difficult to
distinguish between the boundaries of these two activities. The industries in this sector are arranged on a continuum
starting with those establishments providing medical care exclusively, continuing with those providing health care
and social assistance, and finally finishing with those providing only social assistance. The services provided by
establishments in this sector are delivered by trained professionals. All industries in the sector share this
commonality of process, namely, labor inputs of health practitioners or social workers with the requisite expertise.
Many of the industries in the sector are defined based on the educational degree held by the practitioners included in
the industry.
  Excluded from this sector are aerobic classes in Subsector 713, Amusement, Gambling, and Recreation Industries
and nonmedical diet and weight reducing centers in Subsector 812, Personal and Laundry Services. Although these
can be viewed as health services, these services are not typically delivered by health practitioners.

621      Ambulatory Health Care Services         T



  Industries in the Ambulatory Health Care Services subsector provide health care services directly or indirectly to
ambulatory patients and do not usually provide inpatient services. Health practitioners in this subsector provide
outpatient services, with the facilities and equipment not usually being the most significant part of the production
process.

6211     Offices of Physicians   T



62111    Offices of Physicians   T



  This industry comprises establishments of health practitioners having the degree of M.D. (Doctor of Medicine) or
D.O. (Doctor of Osteopathy) primarily engaged in the independent practice of general or specialized medicine (e.g.,
anesthesiology, oncology, ophthalmology, psychiatry) or surgery. These practitioners operate private or group
practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical
centers.

Cross-References.

      Medical centers primarily engaged in providing emergency medical care for accident or trauma victims and
         ambulatory surgical centers primarily engaged in providing surgery on an outpatient basis are classified in
         Industry 62149, Other Outpatient Care Centers;
      Establishments of oral pathologists are classified in Industry 62121, Offices of Dentists; and
      Establishments of speech or voice pathologists are classified in Industry 62134, Offices of Physical,
         Occupational and Speech Therapists, and Audiologists.

621111 Offices of Physicians (except Mental Health Specialists)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments of health practitioners having the degree of M.D. (Doctor of
Medicine) or D.O. (Doctor of Osteopathy) primarily engaged in the independent practice of general or specialized
medicine (except psychiatry or psychoanalysis) or surgery. These practitioners operate private or group practices in
their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers.

Cross-References.

      Establishments of physicians primarily engaged in the independent practice of psychiatry or psychoanalysis
         are classified in U.S. Industry 621112, Offices of Physicians, Mental Health Specialists;

     Freestanding medical centers primarily engaged in providing emergency medical care for accident or
          catastrophe victims and freestanding ambulatory surgical centers primarily engaged in providing surgery on
          an outpatient basis are classified in U.S. Industry 621493, Freestanding Ambulatory Surgical and
          Emergency Centers;
     Establishments of oral pathologists are classified in Industry 621210, Offices of Dentists; and
     Establishments of speech or voice pathologists are classified in Industry 621340, Offices of Physical,
          Occupational and Speech Therapists, and Audiologists.

621112 Offices of Physicians, Mental Health Specialists

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments of health practitioners having the degree of M.D. (Doctor of
Medicine) or D.O. (Doctor of Osteopathy) primarily engaged in the independent practice of psychiatry or
psychoanalysis. These practitioners operate private or group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or
in the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers.

6212      Offices of Dentists  T



62121     Offices of Dentists  T

          See industry description for 621210 below.

621210 Offices of Dentists

  This industry comprises establishments of health practitioners having the degree of D.M.D. (Doctor of Dental
Medicine), D.D.S. (Doctor of Dental Surgery), or D.D.Sc. (Doctor of Dental Science) primarily engaged in the
independent practice of general or specialized dentistry or dental surgery. These practitioners operate private or
group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO
medical centers. They can provide either comprehensive preventive, cosmetic, or emergency care, or specialize in a
single field of dentistry.

Cross-References.

     Establishments known as dental laboratories primarily engaged in making dentures, artificial teeth, and
          orthodontic appliances to order for dentists are classified in U.S. Industry 339116, Dental Laboratories; and
     Establishments of dental hygienists primarily engaged in cleaning teeth and gums or establishments of
          denturists primarily engaged in taking impressions for and fitting dentures are classified in U.S. Industry
          621399, Offices of All Other Miscellaneous Health Practitioners.

6213      Offices of Other Health Practitioners    T



  This industry group comprises establishments of independent health practitioners (except physicians and dentists).

62131     Offices of Chiropractors    T

          See industry description for 621310 below.

621310 Offices of Chiropractors

  This industry comprises establishments of health practitioners having the degree of D.C. (Doctor of Chiropractic)
primarily engaged in the independent practice of chiropractic. These practitioners provide diagnostic and
therapeutic treatment of neuromusculoskeletal and related disorders through the manipulation and adjustment of the
spinal column and extremities, and operate private or group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in
the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers.

62132     Offices of Optometrists    T

          See industry description for 621320 below.

621320 Offices of Optometrists

  This industry comprises establishments of health practitioners having the degree of O.D. (Doctor of Optometry)
primarily engaged in the independent practice of optometry. These practitioners examine, diagnose, treat, and
manage diseases and disorders of the visual system, the eye and associated structures as well as diagnose related
systemic conditions. Offices of optometrists prescribe and/or provide eyeglasses, contact lenses, low vision aids,
and vision therapy. They operate private or group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in the
facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers, and may also provide the same services as opticians,
such as selling and fitting prescription eyeglasses and contact lenses.

Cross-References.

      Offices of opticians primarily engaged in selling and fitting prescription eyeglasses and contact lenses are
          classified in Industry 446130, Optical Goods Stores; and
      Offices of physicians primarily engaged in the independent practice of ophthalmology are classified in U.S.
          Industry 621111, Offices of Physicians (except Mental Health Specialists).

62133     Offices of Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians)         T

          See industry description for 621330 below.

621330 Offices of Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians)

  This industry comprises establishments of independent mental health practitioners (except physicians) primarily
engaged in (1) the diagnosis and treatment of mental, emotional, and behavioral disorders and/or (2) the diagnosis
and treatment of individual or group social dysfunction brought about by such causes as mental illness, alcohol and
substance abuse, physical and emotional trauma, or stress. These practitioners operate private or group practices in
their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments of psychiatrists, psychoanalysts, and psychotherapists having the degree of M.D. (Doctor of
Medicine) or D.O. (Doctor of Osteopathy) are classified in U.S. Industry 621112, Offices of Physicians, Mental
Health Specialists.

62134     Offices of Physical, Occupational and Speech Therapists, and Audiologists             T

          See industry description for 621340 below.

621340 Offices of Physical, Occupational and Speech Therapists, and Audiologists

  This industry comprises establishments of independent health practitioners primarily engaged in one of the
following: (1) providing physical therapy services to patients who have impairments, functional limitations,
disabilities, or changes in physical functions and health status resulting from injury, disease or other causes, or who
require prevention, wellness or fitness services; (2) planning and administering educational, recreational, and social
activities designed to help patients or individuals with disabilities, regain physical or mental functioning or to adapt
to their disabilities; and (3) diagnosing and treating speech, language, or hearing problems. These practitioners
operate private or group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in the facilities of others, such as
hospitals or HMO medical centers.

Illustrative Examples:

Audiologists' offices
Recreational (e.g., art, dance, music) therapists' offices
Industrial therapists' offices
Speech pathologists' offices
Occupational therapists' offices
Physical therapists' offices

62139     Offices of All Other Health Practitioners      T



  This industry comprises establishments of independent health practitioners (except physicians; dentists;
chiropractors; optometrists; mental health specialists; physical, occupational, and speech therapists; and
audiologists). These practitioners operate private or group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or in
the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers.

Illustrative Examples:

Acupuncturists' (except MDs or DOs) offices
Inhalation or respiratory therapists' offices
Dental hygienists' offices
Midwives' offices
Denturists' offices
Naturopaths' offices
Dietitians' offices
Podiatrists' offices
Homeopaths' offices
Registered or licensed practical nurses' offices

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      The independent practice of medicine (i.e., physicians)--are classified in Industry 62111, Offices of
          Physicians;
      The independent practice of dentistry--are classified in Industry 62121, Offices of Dentists;
      The independent practice of chiropractic--are classified in Industry 62131, Offices of Chiropractors;
      The independent practice of optometry--are classified in Industry 62132, Offices of Optometrists;
      The independent practice of mental health (except physicians)--are classified in Industry 62133, Offices of
          Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians); and
      The independent practice of physical, occupational, and speech therapy and audiology--are classified in
          Industry 62134, Offices of Physical, Occupational and Speech Therapists, and Audiologists.

621391 Offices of Podiatrists

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments of health practitioners having the degree of D.P.M. (Doctor of
Podiatric Medicine) primarily engaged in the independent practice of podiatry. These practitioners diagnose and
treat diseases and deformities of the foot and operate private or group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers,
clinics) or in the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers.

621399 Offices of All Other Miscellaneous Health Practitioners

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments of independent health practitioners (except physicians; dentists;
chiropractors; optometrists; mental health specialists; physical, occupational, and speech therapists; audiologists;
and podiatrists). These practitioners operate private or group practices in their own offices (e.g., centers, clinics) or
in the facilities of others, such as hospitals or HMO medical centers.

Illustrative Examples:

Acupuncturists' (except MDs or DOs) offices
Hypnotherapists' offices
Dental hygienists' offices
Inhalation or respiratory therapists' offices
Denturists' offices
Midwives' offices
Dietitians' offices

Naturopaths' offices
Homeopaths' offices
Registered or licensed practical nurses' offices

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      The independent practice of medicine (i.e., physicians)--are classified in Industry 62111, Offices of
          Physicians;
      The independent practice of dentistry--are classified in Industry 621210, Offices of Dentists;
      The independent practice of chiropractic--are classified in Industry 621310, Offices of Chiropractors;
      The independent practice of optometry--are classified in Industry 621320, Offices of Optometrists;
      The independent practice of mental health (except physicians)--are classified in Industry 621330, Offices of
          Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians);
      The independent practice of physical, occupational, and speech therapy, and audiology--are classified in
          Industry 621340, Offices of Physical, Occupational and Speech Therapists, and Audiologists; and
      The independent practice of podiatry--are classified in U.S. Industry 621391, Offices of Podiatrists.

6214      Outpatient Care Centers   T



62141     Family Planning Centers   T

          See industry description for 621410 below.

621410 Family Planning Centers

  This industry comprises establishments with medical staff primarily engaged in providing a range of family
planning services on an outpatient basis, such as contraceptive services, genetic and prenatal counseling, voluntary
sterilization, and therapeutic and medically induced termination of pregnancy.

Illustrative Examples:

Birth control clinics
Fertility clinics
Childbirth preparation classes
Pregnancy counseling centers

62142     Outpatient Mental Health and Substance Abuse Centers        T

          See industry description for 621420 below.

621420 Outpatient Mental Health and Substance Abuse Centers

  This industry comprises establishments with medical staff primarily engaged in providing outpatient services
related to the diagnosis and treatment of mental health disorders and alcohol and other substance abuse. These
establishments generally treat patients who do not require inpatient treatment. They may provide a counseling staff
and information regarding a wide range of mental health and substance abuse issues and/or refer patients to more
extensive treatment programs, if necessary.

Illustrative Examples:

Outpatient alcoholism treatment centers and clinics (except hospitals)
Outpatient mental health centers and clinics (except hospitals)
Outpatient detoxification centers and clinics (except hospitals)
Outpatient substance abuse treatment centers and clinics (except hospitals)
Outpatient drug addiction treatment centers and clinics (except hospitals)

Cross-References.

      Establishments known and licensed as hospitals primarily engaged in the inpatient treatment of mental
          health and substance abuse illnesses with an emphasis on medical treatment and monitoring are classified
          in Industry 622210, Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in the inpatient treatment of mental health and substance abuse illness
          with an emphasis on residential care and counseling rather than medical treatment are classified in Industry
          623220, Residential Mental Health and Substance Abuse Facilities.

62149     Other Outpatient Care Centers      T



  This industry comprises establishments with medical staff primarily engaged in providing general or specialized
outpatient care (except family planning centers and outpatient mental health and substance abuse centers). Centers
or clinics of health practitioners with different degrees from more than one industry practicing within the same
establishment (i.e., Doctor of Medicine and Doctor of Dental Medicine) are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Dialysis centers and clinics
Outpatient biofeedback centers and clinics
Freestanding ambulatory surgical centers and clinics
Outpatient community health centers and clinics
Freestanding emergency medical centers and clinics
Outpatient sleep disorder centers and clinics
Health maintenance organization (HMO) medical centers and clinics

Cross-References.

      Physician walk-in centers are classified in Industry 62111, Offices of Physicians;
      Centers and clinics of health practitioners from the same industry primarily engaged in the independent
          practice of their profession are classified in Industry 62111, Offices of Physicians; Industry 62121, Offices
          of Dentists; and Industry Group 6213, Offices of Other Health Practitioners;
      Family planning centers are classified in Industry 62141, Family Planning Centers;
      Outpatient mental health and substance abuse centers are classified in Industry 62142, Outpatient Mental
          Health and Substance Abuse Centers;
      HMO establishments (except those providing health care services) primarily engaged in underwriting
          health and medical insurance policies are classified in Industry 52411, Direct Life, Health, and Medical
          Insurance Carriers; and
      Establishments known and licensed as hospitals that also perform ambulatory surgery and emergency room
          services are classified in Subsector 622, Hospitals.

621491 HMO Medical Centers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments with physicians and other medical staff primarily engaged in
providing a range of outpatient medical services to the health maintenance organization (HMO) subscribers with a
focus generally on primary health care. These establishments are owned by the HMO. Included in this industry are
HMO establishments that both provide health care services and underwrite health and medical insurance policies.

Cross-References.

      Health practitioners or health practitioner groups contracting to provide their services to subscribers of
          prepaid health plans are classified in Industry 62111, Offices of Physicians; Industry 621210, Offices of
          Dentists; and Industry Group 6213, Offices of Other Health Practitioners; and
      HMO establishments (except those providing health care services) primarily engaged in underwriting and
          administering health and medical insurance policies are classified in U.S. Industry 524114, Direct Health
          and Medical Insurance Carriers.

621492 Kidney Dialysis Centers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments with medical staff primarily engaged in providing outpatient kidney
or renal dialysis services.

621493 Freestanding Ambulatory Surgical and Emergency Centers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments with physicians and other medical staff primarily engaged in (1)
providing surgical services (e.g., orthoscopic and cataract surgery) on an outpatient basis or (2) providing
emergency care services (e.g., setting broken bones, treating lacerations, or tending to patients suffering injuries as a
result of accidents, trauma, or medical conditions necessitating immediate medical care) on an outpatient basis.
Outpatient surgical establishments have specialized facilities, such as operating and recovery rooms, and specialized
equipment, such as anesthetic or X-ray equipment.

Illustrative Examples:

Freestanding ambulatory surgical centers and clinics
Freestanding trauma centers (except hospitals)
Freestanding emergency medical centers and clinics
Urgent medical care centers and clinics (except hospitals)

Cross-References.

      Physician walk-in centers are classified in U.S. Industry 621111, Offices of Physicians (except Mental
          Health Specialists); and
      Establishments known and licensed as hospitals that also perform ambulatory surgery and emergency room
          services are classified in Subsector 622, Hospitals.

621498 All Other Outpatient Care Centers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments with medical staff primarily engaged in providing general or
specialized outpatient care (except family planning centers, outpatient mental health and substance abuse centers,
HMO medical centers, kidney dialysis centers, and freestanding ambulatory surgical and emergency centers).
Centers or clinics of health practitioners with different degrees from more than one industry practicing within the
same establishment (i.e., Doctor of Medicine and Doctor of Dental Medicine) are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Outpatient biofeedback centers and clinics
Outpatient pain therapy centers and clinics
Outpatient community health centers and clinics
Outpatient sleep disorder centers and clinics

Cross-References.

      Physician walk-in centers are classified in U.S. Industry 621111, Offices of Physicians (except Mental
          Health Specialists);
      Centers and clinics of health practitioners from the same industry primarily engaged in the independent
          practice of their profession are classified in Industry 62111, Offices of Physicians; Industry 621210,
          Offices of Dentists; and Industry Group 6213, Offices of Other Health Practitioners;
      Family planning centers are classified in Industry 621410, Family Planning Centers;
      Outpatient mental health and substance abuse centers are classified in Industry 621420, Outpatient Mental
          Health and Substance Abuse Centers;
      HMO medical centers are classified in U.S. Industry 621491, HMO Medical Centers;

      Dialysis centers are classified in U.S. Industry 621492, Kidney Dialysis Centers; and
      Freestanding ambulatory surgical and emergency centers are classified in U.S. Industry 621493,
          Freestanding Ambulatory Surgical and Emergency Centers.

6215      Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories      T



62151     Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories      T



  This industry comprises establishments known as medical and diagnostic laboratories primarily engaged in
providing analytic or diagnostic services, including body fluid analysis and diagnostic imaging, generally to the
medical profession or to the patient on referral from a health practitioner.

Illustrative Examples:

Dental or medical X-ray laboratories
Medical pathology laboratories
Diagnostic imaging centers
Medical testing laboratories
Medical forensic laboratories

Cross-References.

  Establishments, such as dental, optical, and orthopedic laboratories, primarily engaged in providing the following
activities to the medical profession, respectively: making dentures, artificial teeth, and orthodontic appliances to
prescription; grinding of lenses to prescription; and making orthopedic or prosthetic appliances to prescription are
classified in Industry 33911, Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing.

621511 Medical Laboratories

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as medical laboratories primarily engaged in providing
analytic or diagnostic services, including body fluid analysis, generally to the medical profession or to the patient on
referral from a health practitioner.

Illustrative Examples:

Blood analysis laboratories
Medical pathology laboratories
Medical bacteriological laboratories
Medical testing laboratories
Medical forensic laboratories

Cross-References.

      Establishments known as dental laboratories primarily engaged in making dentures, artificial teeth, and
          orthodontic appliances to prescription are classified in U.S. Industry 339116, Dental Laboratories;
      Establishments known as optical laboratories primarily engaged in grinding of lenses to prescription are
          classified in U.S. Industry 339115, Ophthalmic Goods Manufacturing; and
      Establishments known as orthopedic laboratories primarily engaged in making orthopedic or prosthetic
          appliances to prescription are classified in U.S. Industry 339113, Surgical Appliance and Supplies
          Manufacturing.

621512 Diagnostic Imaging Centers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as diagnostic imaging centers primarily engaged in producing
images of the patient generally on referral from a health practitioner.

Illustrative Examples:

Computer tomography (CT-scan) centers
Medical radiological laboratories
Dental or medical X-ray laboratories
Ultrasound imaging centers
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) centers

6216      Home Health Care Services     T



62161     Home Health Care Services     T

          See industry description for 621610 below.

621610 Home Health Care Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing skilled nursing services in the home, along
with a range of the following: personal care services; homemaker and companion services; physical therapy;
medical social services; medications; medical equipment and supplies; counseling; 24-hour home care; occupation
and vocational therapy; dietary and nutritional services; speech therapy; audiology; and high-tech care, such as
intravenous therapy.

Illustrative Examples:

Home health care agencies
Visiting nurse associations
In-home hospice care services

Cross-References.

      In-home health services provided by establishments of health practitioners and others primarily engaged in
          the independent practice of their profession are classified in Industry 62111, Offices of Physicians; Industry
          621210, Offices of Dentists; Industry Group 6213, Offices of Other Health Practitioners; and U.S. Industry
          621999, All Other Miscellaneous Ambulatory Health Care Services; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in renting or leasing products for home health care are classified in U.S.
          Industry 532291, Home Health Equipment Rental.

6219      Other Ambulatory Health Care Services      T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing ambulatory health care services
(except offices of physicians, dentists, and other health practitioners; outpatient care centers; medical laboratories
and diagnostic imaging centers; and home health care providers).

62191     Ambulance Services   T

          See industry description for 621910 below.

621910 Ambulance Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing transportation of patients by ground or air,
along with medical care. These services are often provided during a medical emergency but are not restricted to
emergencies. The vehicles are equipped with lifesaving equipment operated by medically trained personnel.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing transportation of the disabled or elderly (without medical care) are
classified in U.S. Industry 485991, Special Needs Transportation.

62199     All Other Ambulatory Health Care Services       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing ambulatory health care services (except
office physicians, dentists, and other health practitioners; outpatient care centers; medical and diagnostic
laboratories; home health care providers; and ambulances).

Illustrative Examples:

Blood donor stations
Pacemaker monitoring services
Blood or body organ banks
Physical fitness evaluation services (except by offices of health practitioners)
Health screening services (except by offices of health practitioners)
Smoking cessation programs
Hearing testing services (except by offices of audiologists)

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in the independent practice of medicine are classified in Industry 62111,
          Offices of Physicians;
      Establishments primarily engaged in the independent practice of dentistry are classified in Industry 62121,
          Offices of Dentists;
      Establishments primarily engaged in the independent practice of health care (except offices of physicians
          and dentists) are classified in Industry Group 6213, Offices of Other Health Practitioners;
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing general or specialized outpatient care services are classified
          in Industry Group 6214, Outpatient Care Centers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing home health care services are classified in Industry 62161,
          Home Health Care Services;
      Establishments primarily engaged in transportation of patients by ground or air, along with medical care are
          classified in Industry 62191, Ambulance Services; and
      Establishments known as medical and diagnostic laboratories primarily engaged in providing analytic or
          diagnostic services are classified in Industry 62151, Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories.

621991 Blood and Organ Banks

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in collecting, storing, and distributing blood and
blood products and storing and distributing body organs.

621999 All Other Miscellaneous Ambulatory Health Care Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing ambulatory health care services
(except offices of physicians, dentists, and other health practitioners; outpatient care centers; medical and diagnostic
laboratories; home health care providers; ambulances; and blood and organ banks).

Illustrative Examples:

Health screening services (except by offices of health practitioners)
Physical fitness evaluation services (except by offices of health practitioners)
Hearing testing services (except by offices of audiologists)
Smoking cessation programs
Pacemaker monitoring services

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in the independent practice of medicine are classified in Industry 62111,
         Offices of Physicians;
      Establishments primarily engaged in the independent practice of dentistry are classified in Industry 621210,
         Offices of Dentists;
      Establishments primarily engaged in the independent practice of health care (except offices of physicians
         and dentists) are classified in Industry Group 6213, Offices of Other Health Practitioners;
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing general or specialized outpatient care services are classified
         in Industry Group 6214, Outpatient Care Centers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing home health care services are classified in Industry 621610,
         Home Health Care Services;
      Establishments primarily engaged in the transportation of patients by ground or air, along with medical care
         are classified in Industry 621910, Ambulance Services;
      Establishments known as medical and diagnostic laboratories primarily engaged in providing analytic or
         diagnostic services are classified in Industry 62151, Medical and Diagnostic Laboratories; and
      Blood and organ banks are classified in U.S. Industry 621991, Blood and Organ Banks.

622      Hospitals  T



  Industries in the Hospitals subsector provide medical, diagnostic, and treatment services that include physician,
nursing, and other health services to inpatients and the specialized accommodation services required by inpatients.
Hospitals may also provide outpatient services as a secondary activity. Establishments in the Hospitals subsector
provide inpatient health services, many of which can only be provided using the specialized facilities and equipment
that form a significant and integral part of the production process.

6221     General Medical and Surgical Hospitals        T



62211    General Medical and Surgical Hospitals        T

         See industry description for 622110 below.

622110 General Medical and Surgical Hospitals

  This industry comprises establishments known and licensed as general medical and surgical hospitals primarily
engaged in providing diagnostic and medical treatment (both surgical and nonsurgical) to inpatients with any of a
wide variety of medical conditions. These establishments maintain inpatient beds and provide patients with food
services that meet their nutritional requirements. These hospitals have an organized staff of physicians and other
medical staff to provide patient care services. These establishments usually provide other services, such as
outpatient services, anatomical pathology services, diagnostic
X-ray services, clinical laboratory services, operating room services for a variety of procedures, and pharmacy
services.

6222     Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals       T



62221    Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals       T

         See industry description for 622210 below.

622210 Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals

  This industry comprises establishments known and licensed as psychiatric and substance abuse hospitals primarily
engaged in providing diagnostic, medical treatment, and monitoring services for inpatients who suffer from mental
illness or substance abuse disorders. The treatment often requires an extended stay in the hospital. These
establishments maintain inpatient beds and provide patients with food services that meet their nutritional
requirements. They have an organized staff of physicians and other medical staff to provide patient care services.
Psychiatric, psychological, and social work services are available at the facility. These hospitals usually provide
other services, such as outpatient services, clinical laboratory services, diagnostic X-ray services, and
electroencephalograph services.

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in providing treatment of mental health and substance abuse illnesses on
         an exclusively outpatient basis are classified in Industry 621420, Outpatient Mental Health and Substance
         Abuse Centers;
     Establishments referred to as hospitals but are primarily engaged in providing inpatient treatment of mental
         health and substance abuse illness with the emphasis on counseling rather than medical treatment are
         classified in Industry 623220, Residential Mental Health and Substance Abuse Facilities; and
     Establishments referred to as hospitals but are primarily engaged in providing residential care for persons
         diagnosed with intellectual and developmental disabilities are classified in Industry 623210, Residential
         Intellectual and Developmental Disability Facilities.

6223     Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals        T



62231    Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals        T

         See industry description for 622310 below.

622310 Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals

  This industry consists of establishments known and licensed as specialty hospitals primarily engaged in providing
diagnostic and medical treatment to inpatients with a specific type of disease or medical condition (except
psychiatric or substance abuse). Hospitals providing long-term care for the chronically ill and hospitals providing
rehabilitation, restorative, and adjustive services to physically challenged or disabled people are included in this
industry. These establishments maintain inpatient beds and provide patients with food services that meet their
nutritional requirements. They have an organized staff
of physicians and other medical staff to provide patient care services. These hospitals may provide other services,
such as outpatient services, diagnostic X-ray services, clinical laboratory services, operating room services, physical
therapy services, educational and vocational services, and psychological and social work services.

Cross-References.

     Establishments known and licensed as hospitals primarily engaged in providing diagnostic and therapeutic
         inpatient services for a variety of medical conditions, both surgical and nonsurgical, are classified in
         Industry 622110, General Medical and Surgical Hospitals;
     Establishments known and licensed as hospitals primarily engaged in providing diagnostic and treatment
         services for inpatients with psychiatric or substance abuse illnesses are classified in Industry 622210,
         Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals;
     Establishments referred to as hospitals but are primarily engaged in providing inpatient nursing and
         rehabilitative services to persons requiring convalescence are classified in Industry 623110, Nursing Care
         Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities);
     Establishments referred to as hospitals but are primarily engaged in providing residential care of persons
         diagnosed with intellectual and developmental disabilities are classified in Industry 623210, Residential
         Intellectual and Developmental Disability Facilities; and
     Establishments referred to as hospitals but are primarily engaged in providing inpatient treatment for
         mental health and substance abuse illnesses with the emphasis on counseling rather than medical treatment
         are classified in Industry 623220, Residential Mental Health and Substance Abuse Facilities.

623      Nursing and Residential Care Facilities      T



  Industries in the Nursing and Residential Care Facilities subsector provide residential care combined with either
nursing, supervisory, or other types of care as required by the residents. In this subsector, the facilities are a
significant part of the production process and the care provided is a mix of health and social services with the health
services being largely some level of nursing services.

6231      Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities)   T



62311     Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities)   T

          See industry description for 623110 below.

623110 Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities)

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing inpatient nursing and rehabilitative
services. The care is generally provided for an extended period of time to individuals requiring nursing care. These
establishments have a permanent core staff of registered or licensed practical nurses who, along with other staff,
provide nursing and continuous personal care services.

Illustrative Examples:

Convalescent homes or convalescent hospitals (except psychiatric)
Nursing homes
Assisted living facilities for the elderly with nursing care
Rest homes with nursing care
Inpatient care hospices

Cross-References.

      Assisted living facilities with on-site nursing care facilities are classified in U.S. Industry 623311,
          Continuing Care Retirement Communities; and
      Psychiatric convalescent homes are classified in Industry 623220, Residential Mental Health and Substance
          Abuse Facilities.

6232      Residential Intellectual and Developmental Disability, Mental Health, and Substance Abuse
          FacilitesT



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing residential care (but not licensed
hospital care) to people with intellectual and developmental disabilities, mental illness, or substance abuse problems.

62321     Residential Intellectual and Developmental Disability Facilities     T

          See industry description for 623210 below.

623210 Residential Intellectual and Developmental Disability Facilities

  This industry comprises establishments (e.g., group homes, hospitals, intermediate care facilities) primarily
engaged in providing residential care services for persons diagnosed with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
These facilities may provide some health care, though the focus is room, board, protective supervision, and
counseling.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in providing inpatient treatment of mental health and substance abuse
          illnesses with an emphasis on counseling rather than medical treatment are classified in Industry 623220,
          Residential Mental Health and Substance Abuse Facilities;
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing treatment of mental health and substance abuse illnesses on
          an exclusively outpatient basis are classified in Industry 621420, Outpatient Mental Health and Substance
          Abuse Centers; and
      Establishments known and licensed as hospitals primarily engaged in providing inpatient treatment of
          mental health and substance abuse illnesses with an emphasis on medical treatment and monitoring are
          classified in Industry 622210, Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals.

62322     Residential Mental Health and Substance Abuse Facilities       T

          See industry description for 623220 below.

623220 Residential Mental Health and Substance Abuse Facilities

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing residential care and treatment for patients
with mental health and substance abuse illnesses. These establishments provide room, board, supervision, and
counseling services. Although medical services may be available at these establishments, they are incidental to the
counseling, mental rehabilitation, and support services offered. These establishments generally provide a wide
range of social services in addition to counseling.

Illustrative Examples:

Alcoholism or drug addiction rehabilitation facilities (except licensed hospitals)
Psychiatric convalescent homes or hospitals
Mental health halfway houses
Residential group homes for the emotionally disturbed

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in providing treatment of mental health and substance abuse illnesses on
          an exclusively outpatient basis are classified in Industry 621420, Outpatient Mental Health and Substance
          Abuse Centers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing residential care for persons diagnosed with intellectual and
          developmental disabilities are classified in Industry 623210, Residential Intellectual and Developmental
          Disability Facilities; and
      Establishments known and licensed as hospitals primarily engaged in providing inpatient treatment of
          mental health and substance abuse illnesses with an emphasis on medical treatment and monitoring are
          classified in Industry 622210, Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals.

6233      Continuing Care Retirement Communities and Assisted Living Facilities for the Elderly         T



62331     Continuing Care Retirement Communities and Assisted Living Facilities for the Elderly         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing residential and personal care services for
(1) the elderly and other persons who are unable to fully care for themselves and/or (2) the elderly and other persons
who do not desire to live independently. The care typically includes room, board, supervision, and assistance in
daily living, such as housekeeping services. In some instances these establishments provide skilled nursing care for
residents in separate on-site facilities.

Illustrative Examples:

Assisted living facilities
Assisted living facilities for the elderly without nursing care
Continuing care retirement communities
Rest homes without nursing care

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in providing inpatient nursing and rehabilitative services are classified in
          Industry 62311, Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities); and
      Apartment or condominium complexes where people live independently in rented housing units are
          classified in Industry 53111, Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings.

623311 Continuing Care Retirement Communities

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing a range of residential and personal
care services with on-site nursing care facilities for (1) the elderly and other persons who are unable to fully care for
themselves and/or (2) the elderly and other persons who do not desire to live independently. Individuals live in a
variety of residential settings with meals, housekeeping, social, leisure, and other services available to assist
residents in daily living. Assisted living facilities with on-site nursing care facilities are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in providing inpatient nursing and rehabilitative services are classified in
          Industry 623110, Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities);
      Assisted living facilities without on-site nursing care facilities are classified in U.S. Industry 623312,
          Assisted Living Facilities for the Elderly; and
      Apartment or condominium complexes where people live independently in rented housing units are
          classified in Industry 531110, Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings.

623312 Assisted Living Facilities for the Elderly

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing residential and personal care services
(i.e., without on-site nursing care facilities) for (1) the elderly or other persons who are unable to fully care for
themselves and/or (2) the elderly or other persons who do not desire to live independently. The care typically
includes room, board, supervision, and assistance in daily living, such as housekeeping services.

Illustrative Examples:

Assisted living facilities without on-site nursing care facilities
Rest homes without nursing care
Assisted living facilities for the elderly without nursing care

Cross-References.

      Assisted living facilities with on-site nursing care facilities are classified in U.S. Industry 623311,
          Continuing Care Retirement Communities;
      Assisted living facilities for the elderly with nursing care or rest homes with nursing care are classified in
          Industry 623110, Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities); and
      Apartment or condominium complexes where people live independently in rented or owned housing units
          are classified in Industry 531110, Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings.

6239      Other Residential Care Facilities     T



  This industry group comprises establishments of residential care facilities (except residential intellectual and
developmental disability facilities, mental health and substance abuse facilities and continuing care retirement
communities and assisted living facilities for the elderly).

62399     Other Residential Care Facilities     T

          See industry description for 623990 below.

623990 Other Residential Care Facilities

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing residential care (except residential
intellectual and developmental disability facilities, residential health and substance abuse facilities, continuing care
retirement communities, and assisted living facilities for the elderly). These establishments also provide supervision
and personal care services.

Illustrative Examples:

Boot or disciplinary camps (except correctional) for delinquent youth
Group homes for the hearing or visually impaired
Child group foster homes
Halfway group homes for delinquents or ex-offenders
Delinquent youth halfway group homes
Homes for unwed mothers
Group homes for the disabled without nursing care
Orphanages

Cross-References.

      Residential intellectual and developmental disability facilities are classified in Industry 623210, Residential
          Intellectual and Developmental Disability Facilities;
      Continuing care retirement communities are classified in U.S. Industry 623311, Continuing Care
          Retirement Communities;
      Residential mental health and substance abuse facilities are classified in 623220, Residential Mental Health
          and Substance Abuse Facilities;
      Assisted living facilities for the elderly without nursing care are classified in U.S. Industry 623312,
          Assisted Living Facilities for the Elderly;
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing inpatient nursing and rehabilitative services are classified in
          Industry 623110, Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities);
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing temporary shelter are classified in U.S. Industry 624221,
          Temporary Shelters; and
      Correctional camps are classified in Industry 922140, Correctional Institutions.

624       Social Assistance T



  Industries in the Social Assistance subsector provide a wide variety of social assistance services directly to their
clients. These services do not include residential or accommodation services, except on a short stay basis.

6241      Individual and Family Services     T



62411     Child and Youth Services     T

          See industry description for 624110 below.

624110 Child and Youth Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing nonresidential social assistance services
for children and youth. These establishments provide for the welfare of children in such areas as adoption and foster
care, drug prevention, life skills training, and positive social development.

Illustrative Examples:

Adoption agencies
Youth centers (except recreational only)
Child guidance organizations
Youth self-help organizations
Foster care placement services

Cross-References.

      Youth recreational centers are classified in Industry 713940, Fitness and Recreational Sports Centers;
      Youth recreational sports teams and leagues are classified in Industry 713990, All Other Amusement and
          Recreation Industries;
      Scouting organizations are classified in Industry 813410, Civic and Social Organizations; and

      Establishments primarily engaged in providing day care services for children are classified in Industry
          624410, Child Day Care Services.

62412     Services for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities      T

          See industry description for 624120 below.

624120 Services for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing nonresidential social assistance services to
improve the quality of life for the elderly, persons diagnosed with intellectual and developmental disabilities, or
persons with disabilities. These establishments provide for the welfare of these individuals in such areas as day
care, nonmedical home care or homemaker services, social activities, group support, and companionship.

Cross-References. Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing job training for persons diagnosed with intellectual and developmental disabilities or persons
          with disabilities--are classified in Industry 624310, Vocational Rehabilitation Services;
      Providing residential care for the elderly, persons diagnosed with intellectual and developmental disabilities
          or persons with disabilities--are classified in Subsector 623, Nursing and Residential Care Facilities; and
      Providing in-home health care services--are classified in Subsector 621, Ambulatory Health Care Services.

62419     Other Individual and Family Services       T

          See industry description for 624190 below.

624190 Other Individual and Family Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing nonresidential individual and family social
assistance services (except those specifically directed toward children, the elderly, persons diagnosed with
intellectual and developmental disabilities, or persons with disabilities).

Illustrative Examples:

Community action services agencies
Marriage counseling services (except by offices of mental health practitioners)
Crisis intervention centers
Multipurpose social services centers
Family social services agencies
Self-help organizations (except for disabled persons, the elderly, persons diagnosed with intellectual and
developmental disabilities)
Family welfare services
Suicide crisis centers
Hotline centers
Telephone counseling services

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing clinical psychological and psychiatric social counseling services--are classified in Industry
          621330, Offices of Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians);
      Providing child and youth social assistance services (except day care)--are classified in Industry 624110,
          Child and Youth Services;
      Providing child day care services--are classified in Industry 624410, Child Day Care Services;
      Providing social assistance services for the elderly, persons diagnosed with intellectual and developmental
          disabilities, and persons with disabilities--are classified in Industry 624120, Services for the Elderly and
          Persons with Disabilities;

      Community action advocacy--are classified in U.S. Industry 813319, Other Social Advocacy
         Organizations; and
      Providing in-home health care services--are classified in Subsector 621, Ambulatory Health Care Services.

6242     Community Food and Housing, and Emergency and Other Relief Services             T



62421    Community Food Services       T

         See industry description for 624210 below.

624210 Community Food Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the collection, preparation, and delivery of food for
the needy. Establishments in this industry may also distribute clothing and blankets to the poor. These
establishments may prepare and deliver meals to persons who by reason of age, disability, or illness are unable to
prepare meals for themselves; collect and distribute salvageable or donated food; or prepare and provide meals at
fixed or mobile locations. Food banks, meal delivery programs, and soup kitchens are included in this industry.

62422    Community Housing Services       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing one or more of the following community
housing services: (1) short term emergency shelter for victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, or child abuse;
(2) temporary residential shelter for the homeless, runaway youths, and patients and families caught in medical
crises; (3) transitional housing for low-income individuals and families; (4) volunteer construction or repair of low
cost housing, in partnership with the homeowner who may assist in construction or repair work; and (5) repair of
homes for elderly or disabled homeowners. These establishments may operate their own shelter; or may subsidize
housing using existing homes, apartments, hotels, or motels; or may require a low-cost mortgage or work (sweat)
equity.

Cross-References.

  Central offices of government housing programs are classified in Industry 92511, Administration of Housing
Programs.

624221 Temporary Shelters

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing (1) short term emergency shelter for
victims of domestic violence, sexual assault, or child abuse and/or (2) temporary residential shelter for homeless
individuals or families, runaway youth, and patients and families caught in medical crises. These establishments
may operate their own shelters or may subsidize housing using existing homes, apartments, hotels, or motels.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing emergency shelter for victims of domestic or international disasters
or conflicts are classified in Industry 624230, Emergency and Other Relief Services.

624229 Other Community Housing Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing one or more of the following
community housing services: (1) transitional housing to low-income individuals and families; (2) volunteer
construction or repair of low-cost housing, in partnership with the homeowner who may assist in the construction or
repair work; and (3) the repair of homes for elderly or disabled homeowners. These establishments may subsidize
housing using existing homes, apartments, hotels, or motels or may require a low-cost mortgage or sweat equity.
These establishments may also provide low-income families with furniture and household supplies.

Cross-References.

  Central offices of government housing programs are classified in Industry 925110, Administration of Housing
Programs.

62423     Emergency and Other Relief Services      T

          See industry description for 624230 below.

624230 Emergency and Other Relief Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing food, shelter, clothing, medical relief,
resettlement, and counseling to victims of domestic or international disasters or conflicts (e.g., wars).

6243      Vocational Rehabilitation Services    T



62431     Vocational Rehabilitation Services    T

          See industry description for 624310 below.

624310 Vocational Rehabilitation Services

  This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in providing vocational rehabilitation or habilitation
services, such as job counseling, job training, and work experience, to unemployed and underemployed persons,
persons with disabilities, and persons who have a job market disadvantage because of lack of education, job skill, or
experience and (2) establishments primarily engaged in providing training and employment to persons with
disabilities. Vocational rehabilitation job training facilities (except schools) and sheltered workshops (i.e., work
experience centers) are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

      Schools (except high schools) primarily engaged in providing vocational training are classified in Industry
          61151, Technical and Trade Schools;
      Vocational high schools are classified in Industry 611110, Elementary and Secondary Schools; and
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing career and vocational counseling (except rehabilitative) are
          classified in Industry 611710, Educational Support Services.

6244      Child Day Care Services    T



62441     Child Day Care Services    T

          See industry description for 624410 below.

624410 Child Day Care Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing day care of infants or children. These
establishments generally care for preschool children, but may care for older children when they are not in school and
may also offer pre-kindergarten educational programs.

Illustrative Examples:

Child day care babysitting services
Nursery schools
Child or infant day care centers
Preschool centers

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in offering kindergarten educational programs are classified in Industry 611110,
Elementary and Secondary Schools.


                         Sector 71--Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation                            T


                                                The Sector as a Whole

  The Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation sector includes a wide range of establishments that operate facilities or
provide services to meet varied cultural, entertainment, and recreational interests of their patrons. This sector
comprises (1) establishments that are involved in producing, promoting, or participating in live performances,
events, or exhibits intended for public viewing; (2) establishments that preserve and exhibit objects and sites of
historical, cultural, or educational interest; and (3) establishments that operate facilities or provide services that
enable patrons to participate in recreational activities or pursue amusement, hobby, and leisure-time interests.
  Some establishments that provide cultural, entertainment, or recreational facilities and services are classified in
other sectors. Excluded from this sector are: (1) establishments that provide both accommodations and recreational
facilities, such as hunting and fishing camps and resort and casino hotels are classified in Subsector 721,
Accommodation; (2) restaurants and night clubs that provide live entertainment in addition to the sale of food and
beverages are classified in Subsector 722, Food Services and Drinking Places; (3) motion picture theaters, libraries
and archives, and publishers of newspapers, magazines, books, periodicals, and computer software are classified in
Sector 51, Information; and (4) establishments using transportation equipment to provide recreational and
entertainment services, such as those operating sightseeing buses, dinner cruises, or helicopter rides, are classified in
Subsector 487, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation.

711       Performing Arts, Spectator Sports, and Related Industries        T



  Industries in the Performing Arts, Spectator Sports, and Related Industries subsector group establishments that
produce or organize and promote live presentations involving the performances of actors and actresses, singers,
dancers, musical groups and artists, athletes, and other entertainers, including independent (i.e., freelance)
entertainers and the establishments that manage their careers. The classification recognizes four basic processes: (1)
producing (i.e., presenting) events; (2) organizing, managing, and/or promoting events; (3) managing and
representing entertainers; and (4) providing the artistic, creative and technical skills necessary to the production of
these live events. Also, this subsector contains four industries for performing arts companies. Each is defined on
the basis of the particular skills of the entertainers involved in the presentations.
  The industry structure for this subsector makes a clear distinction between performing arts companies and
performing artists (i.e., independent or freelance). Although not unique to arts and entertainment, freelancing is a
particularly important phenomenon in this Performing Arts, Spectator Sports, and Related Industries subsector.
Distinguishing this activity from the production activity is a meaningful process differentiation. This approach,
however, is difficult to implement in the case of musical groups (i.e., companies) and artists, especially pop groups.
These establishments tend to be more loosely organized and it can be difficult to distinguish companies from
freelancers. For this reason, NAICS includes one industry that covers both musical groups and musical artists.
  This subsector contains two industries for Industry Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar
Events, one for those that operate facilities and another for those that do not. This is because there are significant
differences in cost structures between those promoters that manage and provide the staff to operate facilities and
those that do not. In addition to promoters without facilities, other industries in this subsector include
establishments that may operate without permanent facilities. These types of establishments include: performing
arts companies; musical groups and artists; spectator sports; and independent (i.e., freelance) artists, writers, and
performers.
  Excluded from this subsector are nightclubs. Some nightclubs promote live entertainment on a regular basis and it
can be argued that they could be classified in Industry Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and
Similar Events. However, since most of these establishments function as any other drinking place when they do not
promote entertainment and because most of their revenue is derived from sale of food and beverages, they are
classified in Subsector 722, Food Services and Drinking Places.

7111      Performing Arts Companies       T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in producing live presentations involving the
performances of actors and actresses, singers, dancers, musical groups and artists, and other performing artists.

71111     Theater Companies and Dinner Theaters        T

          See industry description for 711110 below.

711110 Theater Companies and Dinner Theaters

  This industry comprises (1) companies, groups, or theaters primarily engaged in producing the following live
theatrical presentations: musicals; operas; plays; and comedy, improvisational, mime, and puppet shows and (2)
establishments, commonly known as dinner theaters, engaged in producing live theatrical productions and in
providing food and beverages for consumption on the premises. Theater groups or companies may or may not
operate their own theater or other facility for staging their shows.

Illustrative Examples:

Comedy troupes
Opera companies
Live theatrical productions (except dance)
Theatrical stock or repertory companies
Musical theater companies

Cross-References.

      Establishments, such as nightclubs, primarily engaged in providing food and beverages for consumption on
          the premises and that also present live nontheatrical entertainment, are classified in Subsector 722, Food
          Services and Drinking Places;
      Establishments primarily engaged in organizing, managing, and/or promoting performing arts productions
          without producing their own shows are classified in Industry Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts,
          Sports, and Similar Events;
      Companies, groups, or theaters primarily engaged in producing all types of live theatrical dance
          presentations are classified in Industry 711120, Dance Companies;
      Freelance producers and performing artists (except musicians and vocalists) primarily engaged in theatrical
          activities independent of a company or group are classified in Industry 711510, Independent Artists,
          Writers, and Performers; and
      Musicians and vocalists are classified in Industry 711130, Musical Groups and Artists.

71112     Dance Companies    T

          See industry description for 711120 below.

711120 Dance Companies

  This industry comprises companies, groups, or theaters primarily engaged in producing all types of live theatrical
dance (e.g., ballet, contemporary dance, folk dance) presentations. Dance companies or groups may or may not
operate their own theater or other facility for staging their shows.

Cross-References.

      Establishments, such as exotic dance clubs, primarily engaged in providing food and beverages for
          consumption on the premises and that also present live dance entertainment, are classified in Subsector 722,
          Food Services and Drinking Places;
      Establishments primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing dance productions without
          producing their own shows are classified in Industry Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports,
          and Similar Events; and
      Freelance producers and dancers primarily engaged in theatrical activities independent of a company or
          group are classified in Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers.

71113     Musical Groups and Artists     T

          See industry description for 711130 below.

711130 Musical Groups and Artists

  This industry comprises (1) groups primarily engaged in producing live musical entertainment (except theatrical
musical or opera productions), and (2) independent (i.e., freelance) artists primarily engaged in providing live
musical entertainment. Musical groups and artists may perform in front of a live audience or in a studio, and may or
may not operate their own facilities for staging their shows.

Illustrative Examples:

Bands
Musical groups (except theatrical musical groups)
Drum and bugle corps (i.e., drill teams)
Orchestras
Independent musicians or vocalists

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing concerts and other musical
          performances without producing their own shows are classified in Industry Group 7113, Promoters of
          Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events;
      Companies, groups, or theaters primarily engaged in producing theatrical musicals and opera productions
          are classified in Industry 711110, Theater Companies and Dinner Theaters; and
      Freelance producers (except musical groups and artists) primarily engaged in musical activities
          independent of a company or group are classified in Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and
          Performers.

71119     Other Performing Arts Companies      T

          See industry description for 711190 below.

711190 Other Performing Arts Companies

  This industry comprises companies or groups (except theater companies, dance companies, musical groups, and
artists) primarily engaged in producing live theatrical presentations.

Illustrative Examples:

Carnival traveling shows
Ice skating companies
Circuses
Magic shows

Cross-References.

      Establishments, such as comedy clubs or nightclubs, primarily engaged in providing food and beverages for
          consumption on the premises and that also present live nontheatrical entertainment are classified in
          Subsector 722, Food Services and Drinking Places;
      Establishments primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing ice skating shows, circuses,
          and other live performing arts presentations without producing their own shows are classified in Industry
          Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events;
      Theater companies and groups (except dance) or dinner theaters engaged in producing musicals; plays;
          operas; and comedy, improvisational, mime, and puppet shows are classified in Industry 711110, Theater
          Companies and Dinner Theaters;
      Dance companies or groups are classified in Industry 711120, Dance Companies;

     Freelance producers and performing artists (except musicians and vocalists) are classified in Industry
         711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers; and
     Musical groups and independent musicians and vocalists are classified in Industry 711130, Musical Groups
         and Artists.

7112     Spectator Sports   T



71121    Spectator Sports   T



  This industry comprises (1) sports teams or clubs primarily participating in live sporting events before a paying
audience; (2) establishments primarily engaged in operating racetracks; (3) independent athletes engaged in
participating in live sporting or racing events before a paying audience; (4) owners of racing participants, such as
cars, dogs, and horses, primarily engaged in entering them in racing events or other spectator sports events; and (5)
establishments, such as sports trainers, primarily engaged in providing specialized services to support participants in
sports events or competitions. The sports teams and clubs included in this industry may or may not operate their
own arena, stadium, or other facility for presenting their games or other spectator sports events.

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in promoting sporting events without participating in sporting events are
         classified in Industry Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events;
     Establishments, such as youth league baseball teams, primarily engaged in participating in sporting events
         for recreational purposes without playing before a paying audience are classified in Industry 71399, All
         Other Amusement and Recreation Industries;
     Amateur, semiprofessional, or professional athletic associations or leagues are classified in Industry 81399,
         Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political Organizations);
     Establishments primarily engaged in representing or managing the careers of sports figures are classified in
         Industry 71141, Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public Figures;
     Independent athletes engaged in providing sports instruction without participating in sporting events before
         a paying audience are classified in Industry 61162, Sports and Recreation Instruction;
     Independent athletes exclusively engaged in endorsing products or making speeches are classified in
         Industry 71151, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers; and
     Establishments primarily engaged in raising horses, mules, donkeys, and other equines are classified in
         Industry 11292, Horses and Other Equine Production.

711211 Sports Teams and Clubs

  This U.S. industry comprises professional or semiprofessional sports teams or clubs primarily engaged in
participating in live sporting events, such as baseball, basketball, football, hockey, soccer, and jai alai games, before
a paying audience. These establishments may or may not operate their own arena, stadium, or other facility for
presenting these events.

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in promoting sporting events without participating in sporting events are
         classified in Industry Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events;
     Establishments, such as youth league baseball teams, primarily engaged in participating in sporting events
         for recreational purposes without playing before a paying audience are classified in Industry 713990, All
         Other Amusement and Recreation Industries; and
     Amateur, semiprofessional, or professional athletic associations or leagues are classified in Industry
         813990, Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political Organizations).

711212 Racetracks

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating racetracks. These establishments may
also present and/or promote the events, such as auto, dog, and horse races, held in these facilities.

Cross-References.

     Owners of racing participants, such as cars, dogs, and horses, primarily engaged in entering them in racing
         events; trainers of racing participants; and independent athletes, such as jockeys and race car drivers,
         primarily engaged in participating in racing events are classified in U.S. Industry 711219, Other Spectator
         Sports; and
     Establishments primarily engaged in operating as stand-alone casinos are classified in Industry 713210,
         Casinos (except Casino Hotels).

711219 Other Spectator Sports

  This U.S. industry comprises (1) independent athletes, such as professional or semiprofessional golfers, boxers,
and race car drivers, primarily engaged in participating in live sporting or racing events before a paying audience;
(2) owners of racing participants, such as cars, dogs, and horses, primarily engaged in entering them in racing events
or other spectator events; and (3) establishments, such as sports trainers, primarily engaged in providing specialized
services required to support participants in sports events or competitions.

Cross-References.

     Establishments primarily engaged in operating racetracks are classified in U.S. Industry 711212,
         Racetracks;
     Establishments primarily engaged in representing or managing the careers of sports figures are classified in
         Industry 711410, Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public Figures;
     Independent athletes engaged in providing sports instruction without participating in sporting events before
         a paying audience are classified in Industry 611620, Sports and Recreation Instruction;
     Independent athletes exclusively engaged in endorsing products or making speeches are classified in
         Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers; and
     Establishments primarily engaged in raising horses, mules, donkeys, and other equines are classified in
         Industry 112920, Horses and Other Equine Production.

7113     Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events           T



71131    Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events with Facilities          T

         See industry description for 711310 below.

711310 Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events with Facilities

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) organizing, promoting, and/or managing live
performing arts productions, sports events, and similar events, such as state fairs, county fairs, agricultural fairs,
concerts, and festivals, held in facilities that they manage and operate and/or (2) managing and providing the staff to
operate arenas, stadiums, theaters, or other related facilities for rent to other promoters.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Producing live performances (but may also promote the performances and/or operate the facilities where
         the performances take place)--are classified in Industry Group 7111, Performing Arts Companies;
     Operating racetracks (but may also promote the events held in these facilities)--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 711212, Racetracks;
     Presenting sporting events (but may also promote these sporting events and/or operate the stadiums or
         arenas where the sporting events take place)--are classified in U.S. Industry 711211, Sports Teams and
         Clubs;

      Organizing, promoting, and/or managing conventions, conferences, and trade shows (but may also operate
          the facilities where these events take place)--are classified in Industry 561920, Convention and Trade Show
          Organizers;
      Organizing, promoting, and/or managing performing arts productions, sports events, and similar events in
          facilities managed and operated by others--are classified in Industry 711320, Promoters of Performing Arts,
          Sports, and Similar Events without Facilities; and
      Leasing stadiums, arenas, theaters, and other related facilities to others without operating the facilities--are
          classified in Industry 531120, Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses).

71132     Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events without Facilities          T

          See industry description for 711320 below.

711320 Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events without Facilities

  This industry comprises promoters primarily engaged in organizing, promoting, and/or managing live performing
arts productions, sports events, and similar events, such as state fairs, county fairs, agricultural fairs, concerts, and
festivals, in facilities that are managed and operated by others. Theatrical (except motion picture) booking agencies
are included in this industry.

Cross-References.              Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Booking motion pictures or videos--are classified in U.S. Industry 512199, Other Motion Picture and Video
          Industries;
      Producing live performances (but may also promote the performances)--are classified in Industry Group
          7111, Performing Arts Companies;
      Operating racetracks (but may also promote the events held in these facilities)--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 711212, Racetracks;
      Presenting sporting events (but may also promote these events)--are classified in U.S. Industry 711211,
          Sports Teams and Clubs;
      Organizing, promoting, and/or managing conventions, conferences, and trade shows (but may also operate
          the facilities where these events take place)--are classified in Industry 561920, Convention and Trade Show
          Organizers;
      Organizing, promoting, and/or managing performing arts, sports, and similar events in facilities they
          manage or operate--are classified in Industry 711310, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar
          Events with Facilities; and
      Operating amateur, semiprofessional, or professional athletic associations or leagues--are classified in
          Industry 813990, Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political
          Organizations).

7114      Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public Figures            T



71141     Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public Figures            T

          See industry description for 711410 below.

711410 Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers, and Other Public Figures

  This industry comprises establishments of agents and managers primarily engaged in representing and/or
managing creative and performing artists, sports figures, entertainers, and other public figures. The representation
and management includes activities, such as representing clients in contract negotiations; managing or organizing
clients' financial affairs; and generally promoting the careers of their clients.

Illustrative Examples:

Celebrity agents or managers
Sports figure agents or managers

Literary agents
Talent agents
Modeling agents

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in supplying models to clients are classified in Industry 561320,
          Temporary Help Services; and
      Establishments known as model registries primarily engaged in recruiting and placing models for clients
          are classified in U.S. Industry 561311, Employment Placement Agencies.

7115      Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers      T



71151     Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers      T

          See industry description for 711510 below.

711510 Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers

  This industry comprises independent (i.e., freelance) individuals primarily engaged in performing in artistic
productions, in creating artistic and cultural works or productions, or in providing technical expertise necessary for
these productions. This industry also includes athletes and other celebrities exclusively engaged in endorsing
products and making speeches or public appearances for which they receive a fee.

Illustrative Examples:

Independent actors or actresses
Independent producers
Independent art restorers
Independent recording technicians
Independent artists (except musical, commercial, or medical)
Independent speakers
Independent cartoonists
Independent theatrical costume designers
Independent dancers
Independent theatrical lighting technicians
Independent journalists

Cross-References.

      Freelance musicians and vocalists are classified in Industry 711130, Musical Groups and Artists;
      Independent commercial artists and graphic designers are classified in Industry 541430, Graphic Design
          Services; and
      Artisans and craftspersons are classified in Sector 31-33, Manufacturing.

712       Museums, Historical Sites, and Similar Institutions     T



  Industries in the Museums, Historical Sites, and Similar Institutions subsector engage in the preservation and
exhibition of objects, sites, and natural wonders of historical, cultural, and/or educational value.

7121      Museums, Historical Sites, and Similar Institutions     T



71211     Museums    T

          See industry description for 712110 below.

712110 Museums

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the preservation and exhibition of objects of
historical, cultural, and/or educational value.

Illustrative Examples:

Art galleries (except retail)
Planetariums
Art museums
Science or technology museums
Halls of fame
Wax museums

Cross-References.

  Commercial art galleries primarily engaged in selling art objects are classified in Industry 453920, Art Dealers.

71212     Historical Sites T

          See industry description for 712120 below.

712120 Historical Sites

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the preservation and exhibition of sites, buildings,
forts, or communities that describe events or persons of particular historical interest. Archeological sites,
battlefields, historical ships, and pioneer villages are included in this industry.

71213     Zoos and Botanical Gardens     T

          See industry description for 712130 below.

712130 Zoos and Botanical Gardens

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the preservation and exhibition of live plant and
animal life displays.

Illustrative Examples:

Aquariums
Wild animal parks
Arboreta
Zoological gardens
Aviaries

71219     Nature Parks and Other Similar Institutions       T

          See industry description for 712190 below.

712190 Nature Parks and Other Similar Institutions

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the preservation and exhibition of natural areas or
settings.

Illustrative Examples:

Bird or wildlife sanctuaries
Natural wonder (e.g., cavern, waterfall) tourist attractions
Conservation areas
Nature centers or preserves
National parks

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in operating commercial hunting or fishing preserves (e.g., game farms) are
classified in Industry 114210, Hunting and Trapping.

713      Amusement, Gambling, and Recreation Industries           T



  Industries in the Amusement, Gambling, and Recreation Industries subsector (1) operate facilities where patrons
can primarily engage in sports, recreation, amusement, or gambling activities and/or (2) provide other amusement
and recreation services, such as supplying and servicing amusement devices in places of business operated by
others; operating sports teams, clubs, or leagues engaged in playing games for recreational purposes; and guiding
tours without using transportation equipment.
  This subsector does not cover all establishments providing recreational services. Other sectors of NAICS also
provide recreational services. Providers of recreational services are often engaged in processes classified in other
sectors of NAICS. For example, operators of resorts and hunting and fishing camps provide both accommodation
and recreational facilities and services. These establishments are classified in Subsector 721, Accommodation,
partly to reflect the significant costs associated with the provision of accommodation services and partly to ensure
consistency with international standards. Likewise, establishments using transportation equipment to provide
recreational and entertainment services, such as those operating sightseeing buses, dinner cruises, or helicopter rides,
are classified in Sector 48-49, Transportation and Warehousing.
  The industry groups in this subsector highlight particular types of activities: amusement parks and arcades,
gambling industries, and other amusement and recreation industries. The groups, however, are not all inclusive of
the activity. The Gambling Industries industry group does not provide for full coverage of gambling activities. For
example, casino hotels are classified in Subsector 721, Accommodation; and horse and dog racing tracks are
classified in Industry Group 7112, Spectator Sports.

7131     Amusement Parks and Arcades          T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating amusement parks and amusement
arcades and parlors.

71311    Amusement and Theme Parks          T

         See industry description for 713110 below.

713110 Amusement and Theme Parks

  This industry comprises establishments, known as amusement or theme parks, primarily engaged in operating a
variety of attractions, such as mechanical rides, water rides, games, shows, theme exhibits, refreshment stands, and
picnic grounds. These establishments may lease space to others on a concession basis.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

     Operating mechanical or water rides on a concession basis in amusement parks, fairs, and carnivals or in
         operating a single attraction, such as a waterslide--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other Amusement
         and Recreation Industries;
     Operating refreshment stands on a concession basis--are classified in Industry 72251, Restaurants and
         Other Eating Places;
     Supplying and servicing coin-operated amusement (except gambling) devices in places of business
         operated by others--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries;
     Supplying and servicing coin-operated gambling devices (e.g., slot machines) in places of business
         operated by others--are classified in Industry 713290, Other Gambling Industries; and
     Organizing, promoting, and/or managing events, such as carnivals and fairs, with or without facilities--are
         classified in Industry Group 7113, Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports, and Similar Events.

71312    Amusement Arcades        T

          See industry description for 713120 below.

713120 Amusement Arcades

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating amusement (except gambling, billiard, or
pool) arcades and parlors.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Supplying and servicing coin-operated amusement (except gambling) devices in places of business
          operated by others or in operating billiard or pool parlors--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other
          Amusement and Recreation Industries;
      Operating bingo, off-track betting, or slot machine parlors or in supplying and servicing coin-operated
          gambling devices (e.g., slot machines or video gambling terminals) in places of business operated by
          others--are classified in Industry 713290, Other Gambling Industries;
      Operating casinos (except casino hotels)--are classified in Industry 713210, Casinos (except Casino
          Hotels); and
      Operating casino hotels--are classified in Industry 721120, Casino Hotels.

7132      Gambling Industries    T



  This industry group comprises establishments (except casino hotels) primarily engaged in operating gambling
facilities, such as casinos, bingo halls, and video gaming terminals, or in the provision of gambling services, such as
lotteries and off-track betting. Casino hotels are classified in Industry 72112, Casino Hotels.

71321     Casinos (except Casino Hotels)    T

          See industry description for 713210 below.

713210 Casinos (except Casino Hotels)

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating gambling facilities that offer table
wagering games along with other gambling activities, such as slot machines and sports betting. These
establishments often provide food and beverage services. Included in this industry are floating casinos (i.e.,
gambling cruises, riverboat casinos).

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating bingo, off-track betting, or slot machine parlors or in supplying and servicing coin-operated
          gambling devices, such as slot machines and video gaming terminals in places of business operated by
          others--are classified in Industry 713290, Other Gambling Industries; and
      Operating casino hotels--are classified in Industry 721120, Casino Hotels.

71329     Other Gambling Industries      T

          See industry description for 713290 below.

713290 Other Gambling Industries

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating gambling facilities (except casinos or
casino hotels) or providing gambling services.

Illustrative Examples:

Bingo, off-track betting, or slot machine parlors
Coin-operated gambling device concession operators (i.e., supplying and servicing in others' facilities)
Bookmakers

Lottery ticket sales agents (except retail stores)
Card rooms (e.g., poker rooms)

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating casinos--are classified in Industry 713210, Casinos (except Casino Hotels);
      Operating casino hotels--are classified in Industry 721120, Casino Hotels;
      Operating facilities with coin-operated nongambling amusement devices--are classified in Industry 713120,
          Amusement Arcades;
      Supplying and servicing coin-operated nongambling amusement devices in places of business operated by
          others--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries; and
      Operating racetracks or presenting live racing or sporting events--are classified in Industry 71121,
          Spectator Sports.

7139      Other Amusement and Recreation Industries        T



71391     Golf Courses and Country Clubs      T

          See industry description for 713910 below.

713910 Golf Courses and Country Clubs

 This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in operating golf courses (except miniature) and (2)
establishments primarily engaged in operating golf courses, along with dining facilities and other recreational
facilities that are known as country clubs. These establishments often provide food and beverage services,
equipment rental services, and golf instruction services.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating driving ranges and miniature golf courses--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other
          Amusement and Recreation Industries; and
      Operating resorts where golf facilities are combined with accommodations--are classified in Industry
          Group 7211, Traveler Accommodation.

71392     Skiing FacilitiesT

          See industry description for 713920 below.

713920 Skiing Facilities

 This industry comprises establishments engaged in (1) operating downhill, cross-country, or related skiing areas
and/or (2) operating equipment, such as ski lifts and tows. These establishments often provide food and beverage
services, equipment rental services, and ski instruction services. Four-season resorts without accommodations are
included in this industry.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in operating resorts where skiing facilities are combined with accommodations
are classified in Industry Group 7211, Traveler Accommodation.

71393     Marinas   T

          See industry description for 713930 below.

713930 Marinas

  This industry comprises establishments, commonly known as marinas, engaged in operating docking and/or
storage facilities for pleasure craft owners, with or without one or more related activities, such as retailing fuel and
marine supplies; and repairing, maintaining, or renting pleasure boats.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Renting pleasure boats--are classified in U.S. Industry 532292, Recreational Goods Rental;
      Repairing pleasure boats--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household Goods Repair
          and Maintenance;
      Retailing marine supplies--are classified in U.S. Industry 441222, Boat Dealers; and
      Retailing fuel for boats--are classified in Industry 447190, Other Gasoline Stations.

71394     Fitness and Recreational Sports Centers     T

          See industry description for 713940 below.

713940 Fitness and Recreational Sports Centers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating fitness and recreational sports facilities
featuring exercise and other active physical fitness conditioning or recreational sports activities, such as swimming,
skating, or racquet sports.

Illustrative Examples:

Aerobic dance or exercise centers
Ice or roller skating rinks
Gymnasiums
Physical fitness centers
Handball, racquetball, or tennis club facilities
Swimming or wave pools

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in providing nonmedical services to assist clients in attaining or
          maintaining a desired weight are classified in U.S. Industry 812191, Diet and Weight Reducing Centers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating health resorts and spas where recreational facilities are
          combined with accommodations are classified in Industry 721110, Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and
          Motels; and
      Recreational sports clubs (i.e., sports teams) not operating sports facilities are classified in Industry 713990,
          All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries.

71395     Bowling Centers   T

          See industry description for 713950 below.

713950 Bowling Centers

  This industry comprises establishments engaged in operating bowling centers. These establishments often provide
food and beverage services.

71399     All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries        T

          See industry description for 713990 below.

713990 All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries

  This industry comprises establishments (except amusement parks and arcades; gambling industries; golf courses
and country clubs; skiing facilities; marinas; fitness and recreational sports centers; and bowling centers) primarily
engaged in providing recreational and amusement services.

Illustrative Examples:

Amusement ride or coin-operated nongambling amusement device concession operators (i.e.,
supplying or servicing in others' facilities)
Miniature golf courses
Archery or shooting ranges
Recreational day camps (except instructional)
Billiard or pool parlors
Recreational or youth sports teams
Boating clubs (without marinas)
Recreational sports clubs (i.e., sports teams) not operating facilities
Dance halls
Riding stables

Cross-References.

      Establishments primarily engaged in operating amusement parks and arcades are classified in Industry
          Group 7131, Amusement Parks and Arcades;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating gambling facilities (except casino hotels) or providing
          gambling services are classified in Industry Group 7132, Gambling Industries;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating casino hotels are classified in Industry 721120, Casino
          Hotels;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating golf courses (except miniature) and country clubs are
          classified in Industry 713910, Golf Courses and Country Clubs;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating skiing facilities without hotel accommodation are classified
          in Industry 713920, Skiing Facilities;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating resorts where recreational facilities are combined with
          lodging are classified in Industry Group 7211, Traveler Accommodation;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating marinas are classified in Industry 713930, Marinas;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating fitness and recreational sports centers are classified in
          Industry 713940, Fitness and Recreational Sports Centers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating bowling centers are classified in Industry 713950, Bowling
          Centers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in operating instructional camps, such as sports camps, fine arts camps,
          and computer camps, are classified in Sector 61, Educational Services based on the nature of instruction;
      Independent athletes engaged in participating in sporting events before a paying audience are classified in
          U.S. Industry 711219, Other Spectator Sports;
      Independent athletes engaged in providing sports instruction without participating in sporting events before
          a paying audience are classified in Industry 611620, Sports and Recreation Instruction;
      Independent athletes exclusively engaged in endorsing products or making speeches are classified in
          Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers;
      Establishments primarily engaged in providing scenic and sightseeing transportation are classified in
          Subsector 487, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation;
      Aviation clubs primarily engaged in providing specialty air and flying services are classified in U.S.
          Industry 481219, Other Nonscheduled Air Transportation;
      Aviation clubs primarily engaged in advocating social and political causes are classified in U.S. Industry
          813319, Other Social Advocacy Organizations; and
      Amateur, semiprofessional, or professional athletic associations or leagues are classified in Industry
          813990, Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political Organizations).

                         Sector 72--Accommodation and Food Services                           T


                                                The Sector as a Whole

  The Accommodation and Food Services sector comprises establishments providing customers with lodging and/or
preparing meals, snacks, and beverages for immediate consumption. The sector includes both accommodation and
food services establishments because the two activities are often combined at the same establishment.
  Excluded from this sector are civic and social organizations; amusement and recreation parks; theaters; and other
recreation or entertainment facilities providing food and beverage services.

721       Accommodation      T



  Industries in the Accommodation subsector provide lodging or short-term accommodations for travelers,
vacationers, and others. There is a wide range of establishments in these industries. Some provide lodging only;
while others provide meals, laundry services, and recreational facilities, as well as lodging. Lodging establishments
are classified in this subsector even if the provision of complementary services generates more revenue. The types
of complementary services provided vary from establishment to establishment.
  The subsector is organized into three groups: (1) traveler accommodation, (2) recreational accommodation, and (3)
rooming and boarding houses. The Traveler Accommodation industry group includes establishments that primarily
provide traditional types of lodging services. This group includes hotels, motels, and bed-and-breakfast inns. In
addition to lodging, these establishments may provide a range of other services to their guests. The RV
(Recreational Vehicle) Parks and Recreational Camps industry group includes establishments that operate lodging
facilities primarily designed to accommodate outdoor enthusiasts. Included are travel trailer campsites, recreational
vehicle parks, and outdoor adventure retreats. The Rooming and Boarding Houses industry group includes
establishments providing temporary or longer-term accommodations, that for the period of occupancy, may serve as
a principal residence. Board (i.e., meals) may be provided but is not essential.
  Establishments that manage short-stay accommodation establishments (e.g., hotels and motels) on a contractual
basis are classified in this subsector if they both manage the operation and provide the operating staff. Such
establishments are classified based on the type of facility managed and operated.

7211      Traveler Accommodation       T



72111     Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels     T

          See industry description for 721110 below.

721110 Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing short-term lodging in facilities known as
hotels, motor hotels, resort hotels, and motels. The establishments in this industry may offer food and beverage
services, recreational services, conference rooms and convention services, laundry services, parking, and other
services.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing short-term lodging with a casino on the premises--are classified in Industry 721120, Casino
          Hotels; and
      Providing short-term lodging in facilities known as bed-and-breakfast inns, youth hostels, housekeeping
          cabins and cottages, and tourist homes--are classified in Industry 72119, Other Traveler Accommodation.

72112     Casino Hotels  T

          See industry description for 721120 below.

721120 Casino Hotels

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing short-term lodging in hotel facilities with a
casino on the premises. The casino on premises includes table wagering games and may include other gambling
activities, such as slot machines and sports betting. These establishments generally offer a range of services and
amenities, such as food and beverage services, entertainment, valet parking, swimming pools, and conference and
convention facilities.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing short-term lodging in facilities known as hotels and motels that provide limited gambling
          activities, such as slot machines, without a casino on the premises--are classified in Industry 721110,
          Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels; and
      Operating as stand-alone casinos--are classified in Industry 713210, Casinos (except Casino Hotels).

72119     Other Traveler Accommodation       T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing short-term lodging (except hotels, motels,
and casino hotels).

Illustrative Examples:

Bed-and-breakfast inns
Tourist homes
Guest houses
Youth hostels
Housekeeping cabins and cottages

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing short-term lodging in facilities known as hotels without a casino on the premises--are classified
          in Industry 72111, Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels; and
      Providing short-term lodging in facilities known as hotels with a casino on the premises--are classified in
          Industry 72112, Casino Hotels.

721191 Bed-and-Breakfast Inns

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing short-term lodging in facilities known
as bed-and-breakfast inns. These establishments provide short-term lodging in private homes or small buildings
converted for this purpose. Bed-and-breakfast inns are characterized by a highly personalized service and inclusion
of a full breakfast in the room rate.

721199 All Other Traveler Accommodation

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing short-term lodging (except hotels,
motels, casino hotels, and bed-and-breakfast inns).

Illustrative Examples:

Guest houses
Tourist homes
Housekeeping cabins and cottages
Youth hostels

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing short-term lodging in facilities known as hotels without a casino on the premises--are classified
          in Industry 721110, Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels;

      Providing short-term lodging in facilities known as hotels with a casino on the premises--are classified in
          Industry 721120, Casino Hotels; and
      Providing short-term lodging in establishments known as bed-and-breakfast inns--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 721191, Bed-and-Breakfast Inns.

7212      RV (Recreational Vehicle) Parks and Recreational Camps           T



72121     RV (Recreational Vehicle) Parks and Recreational Camps           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating recreational vehicle parks and
campgrounds and recreational and vacation camps. These establishments cater to outdoor enthusiasts and are
characterized by the type of accommodation and by the nature and the range of recreational facilities and activities
provided to their clients.

Illustrative Examples:

Fishing and hunting camps
Travel trailer campsites
Outdoor adventure retreats
Vacation camps (except instructional, day)
Recreational vehicle parks

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating recreational facilities without accommodations--are classified in Subsector 713, Amusement,
          Gambling, and Recreation Industries;
      Operating instructional camps, such as sports camps, fine arts camps, and computer camps--are classified in
          Sector 61, Educational Services, based on the nature of instruction;
      Operating children's day camps (except instructional)--are classified in Industry 71399, All Other
          Amusement and Recreation Industries; and
      Acting as lessors of residential mobile home sites (i.e., trailer parks)--are classified in Industry 53119,
          Lessors of Other Real Estate Property.

721211 RV (Recreational Vehicle) Parks and Campgrounds

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating sites to accommodate campers and
their equipment, including tents, tent trailers, travel trailers, and RVs (recreational vehicles). These establishments
may provide access to facilities, such as washrooms, laundry rooms, recreation halls and playgrounds, stores, and
snack bars.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating recreational facilities without accommodations--are classified in Subsector 713, Amusement,
          Gambling, and Recreation Industries; and
      Acting as lessors of residential mobile home sites (i.e., trailer parks)--are classified in Industry 531190,
          Lessors of Other Real Estate Property.

721214 Recreational and Vacation Camps (except Campgrounds)

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating overnight recreational camps, such as
children's camps, family vacation camps, hunting and fishing camps, and outdoor adventure retreats that offer trail
riding, white-water rafting, hiking, and similar activities. These establishments provide accommodation facilities,
such as cabins and fixed campsites, and other amenities, such as food services, recreational facilities and equipment,
and organized recreational activities.

Illustrative Examples:

Fishing camps
Vacation camps (except instructional, day)
Hunting camps
Wilderness camps
Outdoor adventure retreats

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Operating instructional camps, such as sports camps, fine arts camps, and computer camps--are classified in
          Sector 61, Educational Services, based on the nature of instruction; and
      Operating children's day camps (except instructional)--are classified in Industry 713990, All Other
          Amusement and Recreation Industries.

7213      Rooming and Boarding Houses        T



72131     Rooming and Boarding Houses        T

          See industry description for 721310 below.

721310 Rooming and Boarding Houses

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating rooming and boarding houses and similar
facilities, such as fraternity houses, sorority houses, off-campus dormitories, residential clubs, and workers' camps.
These establishments provide temporary or longer-term accommodations which, for the period of occupancy, may
serve as a principal residence. These establishments also may provide complementary services, such as
housekeeping, meals, and laundry services.

Illustrative Examples:

Dormitories (off campus)
Sorority houses
Fraternity houses
Workers' camps
Rooming houses

722       Food Services and Drinking Places      T



  Industries in the Food Services and Drinking Places subsector prepare meals, snacks, and beverages to customer
order for immediate on-premises and off-premises consumption. There is a wide range of establishments in these
industries. Some provide food and drink only; while others provide various combinations of seating space,
waiter/waitress services and incidental amenities, such as limited entertainment. The industries in the subsector are
grouped based on the type and level of services provided. The industry groups are special food services, such as
food service contractors, caterers, and mobile food services; drinking places; and restaurants and other eating places.
  Food and beverage services at hotels and motels; amusement parks, theaters, casinos, country clubs, and similar
recreational facilities; and civic and social organizations are included in this subsector only if these services are
provided by a separate establishment primarily engaged in providing food and beverage services.
  Excluded from this subsector are establishments operating dinner cruises. These establishments are classified in
Subsector 487, Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation because they utilize transportation equipment to provide
scenic recreational entertainment.

7223      Special Food Services    T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing food services at one or more of the
following locations: (1) the customer's location; (2) a location designated by the customer; or (3) from motorized
vehicles or nonmotorized carts.

72231     Food Service Contractors     T

          See industry description for 722310 below.

722310 Food Service Contractors

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing food services at institutional,
governmental, commercial, or industrial locations of others based on contractual arrangements with these type of
organizations for a specified period of time. The establishments of this industry provide food services for the
convenience of the contracting organization or the contracting organization's customers. The contractual
arrangement of these establishments with contracting organizations may vary from type of facility operated (e.g.,
cafeteria, restaurant, fast-food eating place), revenue sharing, cost structure, to providing personnel. Management
staff is always provided by the food service contractors.

Illustrative Examples:

Airline food service contractors
Food concession contractors (e.g., at sporting, entertainment, convention facilities)
Cafeteria food service contractors (e.g., at schools, hospitals, government offices)

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing food services on a single-event basis--are classified in Industry 722320, Caterers; and
      Supplying and servicing food vending machines--are classified in Industry 454210, Vending Machine
          Operators.

72232     Caterers T

          See industry description for 722320 below.

722320 Caterers

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing single event-based food services. These
establishments generally have equipment and vehicles to transport meals and snacks to events and/or prepare food at
an off-premise site. Banquet halls with catering staff are included in this industry. Examples of events catered by
establishments in this industry are graduation parties, wedding receptions, business or retirement luncheons, and
trade shows.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Preparing and serving meals and snacks for immediate consumption from motorized vehicles or
          nonmotorized carts--are classified in Industry 722330, Mobile Food Services;
      Providing food services at institutional, governmental, commercial, or industrial locations of others (e.g.,
          airline contractors, industrial caterers) or providing food services based on contractual arrangements for a
          specified period of time--are classified in Industry 722310, Food Service Contractors; and
      Renting out facilities without providing catering staff--are classified in Industry 531120, Lessors of
          Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses).

72233     Mobile Food Services    T

          See industry description for 722330 below.

722330 Mobile Food Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in preparing and serving meals and snacks for
immediate consumption from motorized vehicles or nonmotorized carts. The establishment is the central location
from which the caterer route is serviced, not each vehicle or cart. Included in this industry are establishments
primarily engaged in providing food services from vehicles, such as hot dog carts and ice cream trucks.

Illustrative Examples:

Ice cream truck vendors
Mobile food concession stands
Mobile canteens
Mobile refreshment stands
Mobile food carts
Mobile snack stands

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing food services where patrons generally order or select items and pay before eating--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 722513, Limited-Service Restaurants;
      Selling unprepared foods, such as vegetables, melons, and nuts or fruit from carts--are classified in Industry
          454390, Other Direct Selling Establishments;
      Selling specialty snacks (e.g., ice cream, frozen yogurt, cookies, popcorn) or nonalcoholic beverages in
          nonmobile facilities for consumption on or near the premises--are classified in U.S. Industry 722515, Snack
          and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars;
      Selling food specialties, such as hamburgers, hot dogs, chicken, pizza, or specialty cuisines from nonmobile
          facilities--are classified in U.S. Industry 722513, Limited-Service Restaurants or U.S. Industry 722511,
          Full-Service Restaurants, based on type of food services provided to patrons; and
      Operating as street vendors (except food)--are classified in Industry 454390, Other Direct Selling
          Establishments.

7224      Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages)       T



  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in preparing and serving alcoholic beverages for
immediate consumption.

72241     Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages)       T

          See industry description for 722410 below.

722410 Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages)

  This industry comprises establishments known as bars, taverns, nightclubs, or drinking places primarily engaged
in preparing and serving alcoholic beverages for immediate consumption. These establishments may also provide
limited food services.

Cross-References.             Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Preparing and serving alcoholic beverages (i.e., not known as bars or taverns) and providing food services
          to patrons--are classified in Industry 72251, Restaurants and Other Eating Places;
      Operating a civic or social association with a bar for the association members--are classified in Industry
          813410, Civic and Social Organizations;
      Retailing packaged alcoholic beverages not for immediate consumption on the premises--are classified in
          Industry 445310, Beer, Wine, and Liquor Stores; and
      Operating discotheques or dance clubs without selling alcoholic beverages--are classified in Industry
          713990, All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries.

7225      Restaurants and Other Eating Places       T



72251     Restaurants and Other Eating Places       T

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one of the following: (1) providing food services to
patrons who order and are served while seated (i.e., waiter/waitress service), and pay after eating; (2) providing food
services to patrons who generally order or select items (e.g., at a counter, in a buffet line) and pay before eating; or
(3) preparing and/or serving a specialty snack (e.g., ice cream, frozen yogurt, cookies) and/or nonalcoholic
beverages (e.g., coffee, juices, sodas) for consumption on or near the premises.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Preparing and serving alcoholic beverages and known as bars, taverns, or nightclubs--are classified in
          Industry 72241, Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages);
      Preparing and serving snacks and nonalcoholic beverages from mobile vehicles--are classified in Industry
          72233, Mobile Food Services;
      Presenting live theatrical productions and providing food and beverages for consumption on the premises--
          are classified in Industry 71111, Theater Companies and Dinner Theaters;
      Retailing confectionery goods and nuts not packaged for immediate consumption--are classified in Industry
          44529, Other Specialty Food Stores; and
      Retailing baked goods (e.g., pretzels, doughnuts, cookies, and bagels) not baked on the premises and not
          for immediate consumption--are classified in Industry 44529, Other Specialty Food Stores.

722511 Full-Service Restaurants

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing food services to patrons who order
and are served while seated (i.e., waiter/waitress service) and pay after eating. These establishments may provide
this type of food service to patrons in combination with selling alcoholic beverages, providing carryout services, or
presenting live nontheatrical entertainment.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing food services where patrons generally order or select items and pay before eating--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 722513, Limited-Service Restaurants;
      Selling a specialty snack or nonalcoholic beverage for consumption on or near the premises--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars;
      Preparing and serving alcoholic beverages and known as bars, taverns, or nightclubs--are classified in
          Industry 722410, Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages); and
      Presenting live theatrical productions and providing food and beverages for consumption on the premises--
          are classified in Industry 711110, Theater Companies and Dinner Theaters.

722513 Limited-Service Restaurants

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing food services (except snack and
nonalcoholic beverage bars) where patrons generally order or select items and pay before eating. Food and drink
may be consumed on premises, taken out, or delivered to the customer's location. Some establishments in this
industry may provide these food services in combination with selling alcoholic beverages.

Illustrative Examples:

Delicatessen restaurants
Pizza delivery shops
Family restaurants, limited-service
Takeout eating places
Fast-food restaurants
Takeout sandwich shops
Limited-service pizza parlors

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Preparing and serving meals for immediate consumption using cafeteria-style serving equipment, known as
          cafeterias--are classified in U.S. Industry 722514, Cafeterias, Grill Buffets, and Buffets;
      Providing food services to patrons who order and are served while seated and pay after eating--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 722511, Full-Service Restaurants;
      Selling a specialty snack (e.g., ice cream, frozen yogurt, candy, cookies) or nonalcoholic beverages, for
          consumption on or near the premises--are classified in U.S. Industry 722515, Snack and Nonalcoholic
          Beverage Bars;
      Retailing confectionery goods and nuts not packaged for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S.
          Industry 445292, Confectionery and Nut Stores;
      Retailing baked goods (e.g., pretzels, doughnuts, cookies, and bagels) not baked on the premises and not
          for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S. Industry 445291, Baked Goods Stores; and
      Preparing and serving alcoholic beverages, known as bars, taverns, or nightclubs--are classified in Industry
          722410, Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages).

722514 Cafeterias, Grill Buffets, and Buffets

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments, known as cafeterias, grill buffets, or buffets, primarily engaged in
preparing and serving meals for immediate consumption using cafeteria-style or buffet serving equipment, such as
steam tables, refrigerated areas, display grills, and self-service nonalcoholic beverage dispensing equipment.
Patrons select from food and drink items on display in a continuous cafeteria line or from buffet stations.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Providing food services to patrons who order and are served while seated and pay after eating--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 722511, Full-Service Restaurants; and
      Providing food services where patrons generally order or select items and pay before eating, other than
          cafeterias, grill buffets, buffets, and snack and nonalcoholic beverage bars--are classified in U.S. Industry
          722513, Limited-Service Restaurants.

722515 Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) preparing and/or serving a specialty snack,
such as ice cream, frozen yogurt, cookies, or popcorn, or (2) serving nonalcoholic beverages, such as coffee, juices,
or sodas for consumption on or near the premises. These establishments may carry and sell a combination of snack,
nonalcoholic beverage, and other related products (e.g., coffee beans, mugs, coffee makers) but generally promote
and sell a unique snack or nonalcoholic beverage.

Illustrative Examples:

Beverage bars
Carryout service doughnut shops with on-premises baking
Carryout service bagel shops with on-premises baking
Carryout service pretzel shops with on-premises baking
Carryout service cookie shops with on-premises baking
Coffee shops, on-premises brewing
Ice cream parlors

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

      Selling one or more of the following food specialties: hamburgers, hot dogs, pizza, chicken, specialty
          cuisines--are classified in U.S. Industry 722513, Limited-Service Restaurants or U.S. Industry 722511,
          Full-Service Restaurants, based on type of food services provided to patrons;
      Preparing and serving snacks and nonalcoholic beverages from mobile vehicles--are classified in Industry
          722330, Mobile Food Services;

 Retailing confectionery goods and nuts not packaged for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S.
  Industry 445292, Confectionery and Nut Stores; and
 Retailing baked goods (e.g., pretzels, doughnuts, cookies, and bagels) not baked on the premises and not
  for immediate consumption--are classified in U.S. Industry 445291, Baked Goods Stores.

                Sector 81--Other Services (except Public Administration)                                T


                                              The Sector as a Whole

  The Other Services (except Public Administration) sector comprises establishments engaged in providing services
not specifically provided for elsewhere in the classification system. Establishments in this sector are primarily
engaged in activities such as equipment and machinery repairing, promoting or administering religious activities,
grantmaking, advocacy, and providing drycleaning and laundry services, personal care services, death care services,
pet care services, photofinishing services, temporary parking services, and dating services.
  Private households that engage in employing workers on or about the premises in activities primarily concerned
with the operation of the household are included in this sector.
  Excluded from this sector are establishments primarily engaged in retailing new equipment and also performing
repairs and general maintenance on equipment. These establishments are classified in Sector 44-45, Retail Trade.

811      Repair and Maintenance      T



  Industries in the Repair and Maintenance subsector restore machinery, equipment, and other products to working
order. These establishments also typically provide general or routine maintenance (i.e., servicing) on such products
to ensure they work efficiently and to prevent breakdown and unnecessary repairs.
  The NAICS structure for this subsector brings together most types of repair and maintenance establishments and
categorizes them based on production processes (i.e., on the type of repair and maintenance activity performed, and
the necessary skills, expertise, and processes that are found in different repair and maintenance establishments).
This NAICS classification does not delineate between repair services provided to businesses versus those that serve
households. Although some industries primarily serve either businesses or households, separation by class of
customer is limited by the fact that many establishments serve both. Establishments repairing computers and
consumer electronics products are two examples of such overlap.
  The Repair and Maintenance subsector does not include all establishments that do repair and maintenance. For
example, a substantial amount of repair is done by establishments that also manufacture machinery, equipment, and
other goods. These establishments are included in the Manufacturing sector in NAICS. In addition, repair of
transportation equipment is often provided by or based at transportation facilities, such as airports and seaports, and
these activities are included in the Transportation and Warehousing sector. A particularly unique situation exists
with repair of buildings. Plumbing, electrical installation and repair, painting and decorating, and other
construction-related establishments are often involved in performing installation or other work on new construction
as well as providing repair services on existing structures. While some specialize in repair, it is difficult to
distinguish between the two types and all have been included in the Construction sector.
  Excluded from this subsector are establishments primarily engaged in rebuilding or remanufacturing machinery
and equipment. These are classified in Sector 31-33, Manufacturing. Also excluded are retail establishments that
provide after-sale services and repair. These are classified in Sector 44-45, Retail Trade.

8111     Automotive Repair and Maintenance        T



  This industry group comprises establishments involved in providing repair and maintenance services for
automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all trailers. Establishments in this industry group
employ mechanics with specialized technical skills to diagnose and repair the mechanical and electrical systems for
automotive vehicles, repair automotive interiors, and paint or repair automotive exteriors.

81111    Automotive Mechanical and Electrical Repair and Maintenance            T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing mechanical or electrical repair and
maintenance services for automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all trailers. These
establishments may specialize in a single service or may provide a wide range of these services.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Retailing automotive vehicles and automotive parts and accessories and also providing automotive repair
          services--are classified in Subsector 441, Motor Vehicle and Parts Dealers;
         Retailing motor fuels and also providing automotive vehicle repair services--are classified in Industry
          Group 4471, Gasoline Stations;
         Changing motor oil and lubricating the chassis of automotive vehicles--are classified in Industry 81119,
          Other Automotive Repair and Maintenance;
         Providing automotive vehicle air-conditioning repair--are classified in Industry 81119, Other Automotive
          Repair and Maintenance; and
         Motorcycle repair and maintenance services--are classified in Industry 81149, Other Personal and
          Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

811111 General Automotive Repair

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing (1) a wide range of mechanical and
electrical repair and maintenance services for automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all
trailers or (2) engine repair and replacement.

Illustrative Examples:

Automobile repair garages (except gasoline service stations)
General automotive repair shops
Automotive engine repair and replacement shops

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Retailing new automotive parts and accessories and also providing automotive repair services--are
          classified in Industry 441310, Automotive Parts and Accessories Stores;
         Changing motor oil and lubricating the chassis of automotive vehicles--are classified in U.S. Industry
          811191, Automotive Oil Change and Lubrication Shops;
         Replacing and repairing automotive vehicle exhaust systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 811112,
          Automotive Exhaust System Repair;
         Replacing and repairing automotive vehicle transmissions--are classified in U.S. Industry 811113,
          Automotive Transmission Repair;
         Retailing motor fuels and also providing automotive vehicle repair services--are classified in Industry
          Group 4471, Gasoline Stations;
         Retailing automobiles and light trucks for highway use and also providing automotive repair services--are
          classified in Industry Group 4411, Automobile Dealers; and
         Motorcycle repair and maintenance services--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and
          Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

811112 Automotive Exhaust System Repair

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in replacing or repairing exhaust systems of
automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans.

Illustrative Examples:

Automotive exhaust system replacement and repair shops
Automotive muffler replacement and repair shops

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in motorcycle repair and maintenance services are classified in Industry 811490,
Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

811113 Automotive Transmission Repair

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in replacing or repairing transmissions of
automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in motorcycle repair and maintenance services are classified in Industry 811490,
Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

811118 Other Automotive Mechanical and Electrical Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing specialized mechanical or electrical
repair and maintenance services (except engine repair and replacement, exhaust systems repair, and transmission
repair) for automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all trailers.

Illustrative Examples:

Automotive brake repair shops
Automotive radiator repair shops
Automotive electrical repair shops
Automotive tune-up shops

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing a wide range of mechanical and electrical automotive vehicle repair or specializing in engine
          repair or replacement--are classified in U.S. Industry 811111, General Automotive Repair;
         Replacing and repairing automotive vehicle exhaust systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 811112,
          Automotive Exhaust System Repair;
         Replacing and repairing automotive vehicle transmissions--are classified in U.S. Industry 811113,
          Automotive Transmission Repair;
         Providing automotive vehicle air-conditioning repair--are classified in U.S. Industry 811198, All Other
          Automotive Repair and Maintenance; and
         Motorcycle repair and maintenance services--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and
          Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

81112     Automotive Body, Paint, Interior, and Glass Repair      T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing one or more of the following: (1) repairing
or customizing automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all trailer bodies and interiors; (2)
painting automotive vehicle and trailer bodies; (3) replacing, repairing, and/or tinting automotive vehicle glass; and
(4) customizing automobile, truck, and van interiors for the physically disabled or other customers with special
requirements.

Illustrative Examples:

Automotive body shops
Automotive paint shops
Automotive glass shops

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Manufacturing automotive vehicles and trailers or customizing these vehicles on an assembly-line basis--
          are classified in Subsector 336, Transportation Equipment Manufacturing; and
         Motorcycle repair and maintenance services--are classified in Industry 81149, Other Personal and
          Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

811121 Automotive Body, Paint, and Interior Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing or customizing automotive vehicles,
such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all trailer bodies and interiors; and/or painting automotive vehicles and
trailer bodies.

Illustrative Examples:

Automotive body shops
Automotive upholstery shops
Automotive paint shops

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Automotive glass replacement, repair and/or tinting--are classified in U.S. Industry 811122, Automotive
          Glass Replacement Shops;
         Manufacturing automotive vehicles and trailers or customizing these vehicles on an assembly-line basis--
          are classified in Subsector 336, Transportation Equipment Manufacturing; and
         Motorcycle repair and maintenance services--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and
          Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

811122 Automotive Glass Replacement Shops

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in replacing, repairing, and/or tinting automotive
vehicle, such as passenger car, truck, and van, glass.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in motorcycle repair and maintenance services are classified in Industry 811490,
Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

81119     Other Automotive Repair and Maintenance         T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing automotive repair and maintenance
services (except mechanical and electrical repair and maintenance; transmission repair; and body, paint, interior, and
glass repair) for automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all trailers.

Illustrative Examples:

Automotive air-conditioning repair shops
Automotive tire repair shops
Automotive oil change and lubrication shops
Car washes
Automotive rustproofing and undercoating shops

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Tire retreading or recapping--are classified in Industry 32621, Tire Manufacturing;
         Automotive vehicle mechanical and electrical repair and maintenance--are classified in Industry 81111,
          Automotive Mechanical and Electrical Repair and Maintenance;
         Automotive body, paint, interior, and glass repair--are classified in Industry 81112, Automotive Body,
          Paint, Interior, and Glass Repair; and
         Motorcycle repair and maintenance services--are classified in Industry 81149, Other Personal and
          Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

811191 Automotive Oil Change and Lubrication Shops

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in changing motor oil and lubricating the chassis
of automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in motorcycle repair and maintenance services are classified in Industry 811490,
Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance.

811192 Car Washes

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in cleaning, washing, and/or waxing automotive
vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and trailers.

Illustrative Examples:

Automotive detail shops
Mobile car and truck washes
Car washes

811198 All Other Automotive Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing automotive repair and maintenance
services (except mechanical and electrical repair and maintenance; body, paint, interior, and glass repair; motor oil
change and lubrication; and car washing) for automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars, trucks, and vans, and all
trailers.

Illustrative Examples:

Automotive air-conditioning repair shops
Automotive tire repair (except retreading) shops
Automotive rustproofing and undercoating shops

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Tire retreading or recapping--are classified in U.S. Industry 326212, Tire Retreading;
         Providing a range of mechanical and electrical automotive vehicle repair or specializing in engine repair or
          replacement--are classified in U.S. Industry 811111, General Automotive Repair;
         Replacing and repairing automotive vehicle exhaust systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 811112,
          Automotive Exhaust System Repair;
         Replacing and repairing automotive vehicle transmissions--are classified in U.S. Industry 811113,
          Automotive Transmission Repair;
         Repairing or customizing automotive vehicle bodies and interiors--are classified in U.S. Industry 811121,
          Automotive Body, Paint, and Interior Repair and Maintenance;
         Replacing, repairing, and/or tinting automotive glass--are classified in U.S. Industry 811122, Automotive
          Glass Replacement Shops;
         Changing motor oil and lubricating the chassis of automotive vehicles--are classified in U.S. Industry
          811191, Automotive Oil Change and Lubrication Shops;
         Cleaning, washing, and/or waxing automotive vehicles and trailers--are classified in U.S. Industry 811192,
          Car Washes;
         Motorcycle repair and maintenance services--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and
          Household Goods Repair and Maintenance; and
         Retailing and installing audio equipment--are classified in Industry 441310, Automotive Parts and
          Accessories Stores.

8112     Electronic and Precision Equipment Repair and Maintenance           T



 This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing electronic equipment, such as
computers and communications equipment, and highly specialized precision instruments. Establishments in this
industry group typically have staff skilled in repairing items having complex, electronic components.

81121    Electronic and Precision Equipment Repair and Maintenance           T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and maintaining one or more of the
following: (1) consumer electronic equipment; (2) computers; (3) office machines; (4) communication equipment;
and (5) other electronic and precision equipment and instruments, without retailing these products as new.
Establishments in this industry repair items, such as microscopes, radar and sonar equipment, televisions, stereos,
video recorders, computers, fax machines, photocopying machines, two-way radios and other communications
equipment, scientific instruments, and medical equipment.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Installing and monitoring home security systems--are classified in Industry 56162, Security Systems
         Services;
        Retailing new radios, televisions, and other consumer electronics and also providing repair services--are
         classified in Industry 44314, Electronics and Appliance Stores;
        Retailing new computers and computer peripherals and also providing repair services--are classified in
         Industry 44314, Electronics and Appliance Stores; and
        Rewinding armatures and rebuilding electric motors on a factory basis--are classified in Industry 33531,
         Electrical Equipment Manufacturing.

811211 Consumer Electronics Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and maintaining consumer electronics,
such as televisions, stereos, speakers, video recorders, CD players, radios, and cameras, without retailing new
consumer electronics.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Repairing computers and peripheral equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 811212, Computer and
         Office Machine Repair and Maintenance;
        Installing and monitoring home security systems--are classified in U.S. Industry 561621, Security Systems
         Services (except Locksmiths);
        Retailing new radios, televisions, and other consumer electronics and also providing repair services--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 443142, Electronics Stores; and
        Repairing two-way radios--are classified in U.S. Industry 811213, Communication Equipment Repair and
         Maintenance.

811212 Computer and Office Machine Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and maintaining computers and office
machines without retailing new computers and office machines, such as photocopying machines; computer
terminals, storage devices, and printers; and CD-ROM drives.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Retailing new computers and computer peripherals and also providing repair services--are classified in U.S.
         Industry 443142, Electronics Stores; and
        Repairing and servicing fax machines--are classified in U.S. Industry 811213, Communication Equipment
         Repair and Maintenance.

811213 Communication Equipment Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and maintaining communications
equipment without retailing new communication equipment, such as telephones, fax machines, communications
transmission equipment, and two-way radios.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Retailing new telephones and also providing repair services--are classified in U.S. Industry 443142,
         Electronics Stores; and
        Repairing stereo and other consumer electronic equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 811211,
         Consumer Electronics Repair and Maintenance.

811219 Other Electronic and Precision Equipment Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and maintaining (without retailing)
electronic and precision equipment (except consumer electronics, computers and office machines, and
communications equipment). Establishments in this industry repair and maintain equipment, such as medical
diagnostic imaging equipment, measuring and surveying instruments, laboratory instruments, and radar and sonar
equipment.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Rewinding armatures and rebuilding electric motors on a factory basis--are classified in U.S. Industry
         335312, Motor and Generator Manufacturing;
        Repairing stereo and other consumer electronic equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 811211,
         Consumer Electronics Repair and Maintenance;
        Repairing computers and office machines--are classified in U.S. Industry 811212, Computer and Office
         Machine Repair and Maintenance; and
        Repairing communications equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 811213, Communication Equipment
         Repair and Maintenance.

8113     Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair
         and Maintenance   T



81131    Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair
         and Maintenance   T

         See industry description for 811310 below.

811310 Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair
         and Maintenance

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in the repair and maintenance of commercial and
industrial machinery and equipment. Establishments in this industry either sharpen/install commercial and industrial
machinery blades and saws or provide welding (e.g., automotive, general) repair services; or repair agricultural and
other heavy and industrial machinery and equipment (e.g., forklifts and other materials handling equipment,
machine tools, commercial refrigeration equipment, construction equipment, and mining machinery).

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Automotive repair (except welding) and maintenance are--classified in Industry Group 8111, Automotive
         Repair and Maintenance;
        Repairing and maintaining electronic and precision equipment--are classified in Industry 81121, Electronic
         and Precision Equipment Repair and Maintenance;
        Repairing and servicing aircraft--are classified in Industry 488190, Other Support Activities for Air
         Transportation;

        Converting, rebuilding, and overhauling aircraft--are classified in Industry 33641, Aerospace Product and
         Parts Manufacturing;
        Repairing and servicing railroad cars and engines--are classified in Industry 488210, Support Activities for
         Rail Transportation;
        Rebuilding or remanufacturing railroad engines and cars--are classified in Industry 336510, Railroad
         Rolling Stock Manufacturing;
        Repairing and overhauling ships at floating dry docks--are classified in Industry 488390, Other Support
         Activities for Water Transportation;
        Repairing and overhauling ships at shipyards--are classified in U.S. Industry 336611, Ship Building and
         Repairing;
        Rewinding armatures or rebuilding electric motors on a factory basis--are classified in U.S. Industry
         335312, Motor and Generator Manufacturing; and
        Repairing and maintaining home and garden equipment (e.g., sharpening or installing blades and saws)--are
         classified in U.S. Industry 811411, Home and Garden Equipment Repair and Maintenance.

8114     Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance           T



81141    Home and Garden Equipment and Appliance Repair and Maintenance               T



  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and servicing home and garden equipment
and/or household-type appliances without retailing new equipment or appliances. Establishments in this industry
repair and maintain items, such as lawnmowers, edgers, snow- and leaf-blowers, washing machines, clothes dryers,
and refrigerators.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Retailing outdoor power equipment and also providing repair services--are classified in Industry 44421,
         Outdoor Power Equipment Stores;
        Retailing an array of new appliances and also providing repair services--are classified in Industry 44314,
         Electronics and Appliance Stores;
        Repairing, servicing, or installing central heating and air-conditioning equipment--are classified in Industry
         23822, Plumbing, Heating, and Air-Conditioning Contractors; and
        Repairing commercial refrigeration equipment--are classified in Industry 81131, Commercial and Industrial
         Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair and Maintenance.

811411 Home and Garden Equipment Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and servicing home and garden
equipment without retailing new home and garden equipment, such as lawnmowers, handheld power tools, edgers,
snow- and leaf-blowers, and trimmers.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in retailing new outdoor power equipment and also providing repair services are
classified in Industry 444210, Outdoor Power Equipment Stores.

811412 Appliance Repair and Maintenance

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and servicing household appliances
without retailing new appliances, such as refrigerators, stoves, washing machines, clothes dryers, and room air-
conditioners.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Installing central heating and air-conditioning equipment--are classified in Industry 238220, Plumbing,
         Heating, and Air-Conditioning Contractors;

        Repairing commercial refrigeration equipment--are classified in Industry 811310, Commercial and
         Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair and Maintenance; and
        Retailing an array of new appliances and also providing repair services--are classified in U.S. Industry
         443141, Household Appliance Stores.

81142    Reupholstery and Furniture Repair        T

         See industry description for 811420 below.

811420 Reupholstery and Furniture Repair

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) reupholstering
furniture; (2) refinishing furniture; (3) repairing furniture; and (4) repairing and restoring furniture.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Automotive vehicle and trailer upholstery repair--are classified in U.S. Industry 811121, Automotive Body,
         Paint, and Interior Repair and Maintenance; and
        The restoration of museum pieces--are classified in Industry 711510, Independent Artists, Writers, and
         Performers.

81143    Footwear and Leather Goods Repair          T

         See industry description for 811430 below.

811430 Footwear and Leather Goods Repair

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing footwear and/or repairing other leather or
leather-like goods without retailing new footwear and leather or leather-like goods, such as handbags and briefcases.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Retailing new luggage and leather goods and also providing repair services--are classified in Industry
         448320, Luggage and Leather Goods Stores;
        Shining shoes--are classified in Industry 812990, All Other Personal Services; and
        Repairing leather clothing--are classified in Industry 811490, Other Personal and Household Goods Repair
         and Maintenance.

81149    Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance               T

         See industry description for 811490 below.

811490 Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in repairing and servicing personal or household-type
goods without retailing new personal or household-type goods (except home and garden equipment, appliances,
furniture, and footwear and leather goods). Establishments in this industry repair items, such as garments; watches;
jewelry; musical instruments; bicycles and motorcycles; and motorboats, canoes, sailboats, and other recreational
boats.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Repairing home and garden equipment--are classified in U.S. Industry 811411, Home and Garden
         Equipment Repair and Maintenance;
        Repairing appliances--are classified in U.S. Industry 811412, Appliance Repair and Maintenance;
        Reupholstering and repairing furniture--are classified in Industry 811420, Reupholstery and Furniture
         Repair;
        Repairing footwear and leather goods--are classified in Industry 811430, Footwear and Leather Goods
         Repair;

         Operating marinas and providing a range of other services including boat cleaning and repair--are classified
          in Industry 713930, Marinas; and
         Drycleaning garments--are classified in Industry Group 8123, Drycleaning and Laundry Services.

812       Personal and Laundry Services      T



  Industries in the Personal and Laundry Services subsector group establishments that provide personal and laundry
services to individuals, households, and businesses. Services performed include: personal care services; death care
services; laundry and drycleaning services; and a wide range of other personal services, such as pet care (except
veterinary) services, photofinishing services, temporary parking services, and dating services.
  The Personal and Laundry Services subsector is by no means all-inclusive of the services that could be termed
personal services (i.e., those provided to individuals rather than businesses). There are many other subsectors, as
well as sectors, that provide services to persons. Establishments providing legal, accounting, tax preparation,
architectural, portrait photography, and similar professional services are classified in Sector 54, Professional,
Scientific, and Technical Services; those providing job placement, travel arrangement, home security, interior and
exterior house cleaning, exterminating, lawn and garden care, and similar support services are classified in Sector
56, Administrative and Support and Waste Management and Remediation Services; those providing health and
social services are classified in Sector 62, Health Care and Social Assistance; those providing amusement and
recreation services are classified in Sector 71, Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation; those providing educational
instruction are classified in Sector 61, Educational Services; those providing repair services are classified in
Subsector 811, Repair and Maintenance; and those providing spiritual, civic, and advocacy services are classified in
Subsector 813, Religious, Grantmaking, Civic, Professional, and Similar Organizations.

8121      Personal Care Services

  This industry group comprises establishments, such as barber and beauty shops, that provide appearance care
services to individual consumers.

81211     Hair, Nail, and Skin Care Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) providing hair care
services; (2) providing nail care services; and (3) providing facials or applying makeup (except permanent makeup).

Illustrative Examples:

Barber shops
Hair stylist shops
Beauty salons
Nail salons
Cosmetology salons

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Offering training in barbering, hair styling, or the cosmetic arts--are classified in Industry 61151, Technical
          and Trade Schools;
         Providing massage, electrolysis (i.e., hair removal), permanent makeup, or tanning services--are classified
          in Industry 81219, Other Personal Care Services; and
         Providing medical skin care services (e.g., cosmetic surgery, dermatology)--are classified in Sector 62,
          Health Care and Social Assistance.

812111 Barber Shops

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as barber shops or men's hair stylist shops primarily engaged
in cutting, trimming, and styling men's and boys' hair; and/or shaving and trimming men's beards.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Offering training in barbering--are classified in U.S. Industry 611511, Cosmetology and Barber Schools;
          and
         Providing hair care services (except establishments known as barber shops or men's hair stylists)--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 812112, Beauty Salons.

812112 Beauty Salons

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except those known as barber shops or men's hair stylist shops)
primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) cutting, trimming, shampooing, coloring, waving, or styling
hair; (2) providing facials; and (3) applying makeup (except permanent makeup).

Illustrative Examples:

Beauty parlors or shops
Facial salons or shops
Combined beauty and barber shops
Hairdressing salons or shops
Cosmetology salons or shops
Unisex or women's hair stylist shops

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Cutting, trimming, and styling men's and boys' hair (known as barber shops or men's hair stylist shops)--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 812111, Barber Shops;
         Offering training in hair styling or the cosmetic arts--are classified in U.S. Industry 611511, Cosmetology
          and Barber Schools;
         Providing nail care services--are classified in U.S. Industry 812113, Nail Salons;
         Providing massage, electrolysis (i.e., hair removal), permanent makeup, or tanning services--are classified
          in U.S. Industry 812199, Other Personal Care Services; and
         Providing medical skin care services (e.g., cosmetic surgery, dermatology)--are classified in Sector 62,
          Health Care and Social Assistance.

812113 Nail Salons

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing nail care services, such as manicures,
pedicures, and nail extensions.

81219     Other Personal Care Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing personal care services (except hair, nail,
facial, or nonpermanent makeup services).

Illustrative Examples:

Depilatory or electrolysis (i.e., hair removal) salons
Permanent makeup salons
Ear piercing services
Steam or turkish baths
Hair replacement (except by offices of physicians) or weaving services
Tanning salons
Massage parlors
Tattoo parlors
Nonmedical diet and weight reducing centers

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing hair, nail, facial, or nonpermanent makeup services--are classified in Industry 81211, Hair, Nail,
          and Skin Care Services;
         Operating physical fitness facilities--are classified in Industry 71394, Fitness and Recreational Sports
          Centers;
         Operating health resorts and spas that provide lodging--are classified in Industry 72111, Hotels (except
          Casino Hotels) and Motels; and
         Providing medical or surgical hair replacement or weight reduction--are classified in Sector 62, Health Care
          and Social Assistance.

812191 Diet and Weight Reducing Centers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing nonmedical services to assist clients
in attaining or maintaining a desired weight. The sale of weight reduction products, such as food supplements, may
be an integral component of the program. These services typically include individual or group counseling, menu
and exercise planning, and weight and body measurement monitoring.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating physical fitness facilities--are classified in Industry 713940, Fitness and Recreational Sports
          Centers;
         Operating health resorts and spas that provide lodging--are classified in Industry 721110, Hotels (except
          Casino Hotels) and Motels; and
         Providing medical or surgical weight reduction--are classified in Sector 62, Health Care and Social
          Assistance.

812199 Other Personal Care Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing personal care services (except hair,
nail, facial, nonpermanent makeup, or nonmedical diet and weight reducing services).

Illustrative Examples:

Depilatory or electrolysis (i.e., hair removal) salons
Saunas
Ear piercing services
Steam or turkish baths
Hair replacement (except by offices of physicians) or weaving services
Tanning salons
Massage parlors
Tattoo parlors
Permanent makeup salons

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Cutting, trimming, and styling men's and boys' hair (known as barber shops or men's hair stylist shops)--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 812111, Barber Shops;
         Providing hair, facial, or nonpermanent makeup services (except establishments known as barber shops or
          men's hair stylist shops)--are classified in U.S. Industry 812112, Beauty Salons;
         Nail care services--are classified in U.S. Industry 812113, Nail Salons;
         Providing nonmedical diet and weight reducing services--are classified in U.S. Industry 812191, Diet and
          Weight Reducing Centers; and
         Providing medical or surgical hair replacement or weight reduction services--are classified in Sector 62,
          Health Care and Social Assistance.

8122      Death Care Services

81221     Funeral Homes and Funeral Services
          See industry description for 812210 below.

812210 Funeral Homes and Funeral Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in preparing the dead for burial or interment and
conducting funerals (i.e., providing facilities for wakes, arranging transportation for the dead, selling caskets and
related merchandise). Funeral homes combined with crematories are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

  Establishments (except funeral homes) primarily engaged in cremating the dead are classified in Industry 812220,
Cemeteries and Crematories.

81222     Cemeteries and Crematories
          See industry description for 812220 below.

812220 Cemeteries and Crematories

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in operating sites or structures reserved for the
interment of human or animal remains and/or cremating the dead.

Illustrative Examples:

Cemetery associations (i.e., operators of cemeteries)
Memorial gardens (i.e., burial places)
Crematories (except combined with funeral homes)
Pet cemeteries
Mausoleums

Cross-References.

  Crematories combined with funeral homes are classified in Industry 812210, Funeral Homes and Funeral Services.

8123      Drycleaning and Laundry Services

81231     Coin-Operated Laundries and Drycleaners
          See industry description for 812310 below.

812310 Coin-Operated Laundries and Drycleaners

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) operating facilities with coin-operated or similar
self-service laundry and drycleaning equipment for customer use on the premises and/or (2) supplying and servicing
coin-operated or similar self-service laundry and drycleaning equipment for customer use in places of business
operated by others, such as apartments and dormitories.

81232     Drycleaning and Laundry Services (except Coin-Operated)
          See industry description for 812320 below.

812320 Drycleaning and Laundry Services (except Coin-Operated)

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) providing
drycleaning services (except coin-operated); (2) providing laundering services (except linen and uniform supply or
coin-operated); (3) providing dropoff and pickup sites for laundries and/or drycleaners; and (4) providing specialty
cleaning services for specific types of garments and other textile items (except carpets and upholstery), such as fur,

leather, or suede garments; wedding gowns; hats; draperies; and pillows. These establishments may provide all, a
combination of, or none of the cleaning services on the premises.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Supplying laundered linens and uniforms on a rental or contract basis--are classified in Industry 81233,
         Linen and Uniform Supply;
        Operating coin-operated or similar self-service laundry or drycleaning facilities--are classified in Industry
         812310, Coin-Operated Laundries and Drycleaners; and
        Cleaning used carpets and upholstery--are classified in Industry 561740, Carpet and Upholstery Cleaning
         Services.

81233    Linen and Uniform Supply

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in supplying, on a rental or contract basis, laundered
items, such as uniforms, gowns and coats, table linens, bed linens, towels, clean room apparel, and treated mops or
shop towels.

812331 Linen Supply

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in supplying, on a rental or contract basis,
laundered items, such as table and bed linens; towels; diapers; and uniforms, gowns, or coats of the type used by
doctors, nurses, barbers, beauticians, and waitresses.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in supplying, on a rental or contract basis, laundered industrial work uniforms
and related work clothing are classified in U.S. Industry 812332, Industrial Launderers.

812332 Industrial Launderers

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in supplying, on a rental or contract basis,
laundered industrial work uniforms and related work clothing, such as protective apparel (flame and heat resistant)
and clean room apparel; dust control items, such as treated mops, rugs, mats, dust tool covers, cloths, and shop or
wiping towels.

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in supplying, on a rental or contract basis, laundered uniforms, gowns or coats
of the type used by doctors, nurses, barbers, beauticians, and waitresses are classified in U.S. Industry 812331,
Linen Supply.

8129     Other Personal Services

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing personal services (except personal
care services, death care services, or drycleaning and laundry services).

81291    Pet Care (except Veterinary) Services
         See industry description for 812910 below.

812910 Pet Care (except Veterinary) Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing pet care services (except veterinary), such
as boarding, grooming, sitting, and training pets.

Cross-References.          Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Practicing veterinary medicine--are classified in Industry 541940, Veterinary Services;
        Boarding horses--are classified in Industry 115210, Support Activities for Animal Production; and
        Transporting pets--are classified in U.S. Industry 485991, Special Needs Transportation.

81292    Photofinishing

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in developing film and/or making photographic slides,
prints, and enlargements.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in processing motion picture film for the motion picture and television
industries are classified in Industry 51219, Postproduction Services and Other Motion Picture and Video Industries.

812921 Photofinishing Laboratories (except One-Hour)

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except those known as "one-hour" photofinishing labs) primarily
engaged in developing film and/or making photographic slides, prints, and enlargements.

Cross-References.

        Establishments primarily engaged in processing motion picture film for the motion picture and television
         industries are classified in U.S. Industry 512199, Other Motion Picture and Video Industries; and
        Establishments known as "one-hour" photofinishing labs are classified in U.S. Industry 812922, One-Hour
         Photofinishing.

812922 One-Hour Photofinishing

 This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as "one-hour" photofinishing labs primarily engaged in
developing film and/or making photographic slides, prints, and enlargements on a short turnaround or while-you-
wait basis.

Cross-References.

 Photofinishing laboratories (except those known as "one-hour" photofinishing labs) are classified in U.S. Industry
812921, Photofinishing Laboratories (except One-Hour).

81293    Parking Lots and Garages
         See industry description for 812930 below.

812930 Parking Lots and Garages

 This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing parking space for motor vehicles, usually
on an hourly, daily, or monthly basis and/or valet parking services.

Cross-References.

 Establishments primarily engaged in providing extended or dead storage of motor vehicles are classified in
Industry 493190, Other Warehousing and Storage.

81299    All Other Personal Services
         See industry description for 812990 below.

812990 All Other Personal Services

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in providing personal services (except personal care
services, death care services, drycleaning and laundry services, pet care services, photofinishing services, or parking
space and/or valet parking services).

Illustrative Examples:

Bail bonding or bondsperson services
Shoeshine services
Coin-operated personal services machine (e.g., blood pressure, locker, photographic, scale, shoeshine) concession
operators
Social escort services
Consumer buying services
Wedding planning services
Dating services

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing personal care services--are classified in Industry Group 8121, Personal Care Services;
         Providing death care services--are classified in Industry Group 8122, Death Care Services;
         Providing drycleaning and laundry services--are classified in Industry Group 8123, Drycleaning and
          Laundry Services;
         Providing pet care (except veterinary) services--are classified in Industry 812910, Pet Care (except
          Veterinary) Services;
         Practicing veterinary medicine--are classified in Industry 541940, Veterinary Services;
         Providing photofinishing services--are classified in Industry 81292, Photofinishing; and
         Providing parking space for motor vehicles and/or valet parking services--are classified in Industry 812930,
          Parking Lots and Garages.

813       Religious, Grantmaking, Civic, Professional, and Similar Organizations        T



  Industries in the Religious, Grantmaking, Civic, Professional, and Similar Organizations subsector group
establishments that organize and promote religious activities; support various causes through grantmaking; advocate
various social and political causes; and promote and defend the interests of their members.
  The industry groups within the subsector are defined in terms of their activities, such as establishments that
provide funding for specific causes or for a variety of charitable causes; establishments that advocate and actively
promote causes and beliefs for the public good; and establishments that have an active membership structure to
promote causes and represent the interests of their members. Establishments in this subsector may publish
newsletters, books, and periodicals, for distribution to their membership.

8131      Religious Organizations

81311     Religious Organizations
          See industry description for 813110 below.

813110 Religious Organizations

  This industry comprises (1) establishments primarily engaged in operating religious organizations, such as
churches, religious temples, and monasteries, and/or (2) establishments primarily engaged in administering an
organized religion or promoting religious activities.

Illustrative Examples:

Churches
Shrines, religious
Monasteries (except schools)
Synagogues

Mosques, religious
Temples, religious

Cross-References.

         Schools, colleges, or universities operated by religious organizations are classified in Sector 61,
          Educational Services;
         Radio and television stations operated by religious organizations are classified in Subsector 515,
          Broadcasting (except Internet);
         Publishing houses operated by religious organizations are classified in Subsector 511, Publishing Industries
          (except Internet);
         Establishments operated by religious organizations primarily engaged in health and social assistance for
          individuals are classified in Sector 62, Health Care and Social Assistance; and
         Used merchandise stores operated by religious organizations are classified in Industry 453310, Used
          Merchandise Stores.

8132      Grantmaking and Giving Services

81321     Grantmaking and Giving Services

  This industry comprises (1) establishments known as grantmaking foundations or charitable trusts and (2)
establishments primarily engaged in raising funds for a wide range of social welfare activities, such as health,
educational, scientific, and cultural activities.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Providing trust management services for others--are classified in Industry 52392, Portfolio Management;
         Organizing and conducting fundraising campaigns on a contract or fee basis--are classified in Industry
          56149, Other Business Support Services;
         Providing telemarketing services for others--are classified in Industry 56142, Telephone Call Centers;
         Raising funds for political purposes--are classified in Industry 81394, Political Organizations;
         Advocating social causes or issues--are classified in Industry 81331, Social Advocacy Organizations; and
         Conducting health research--are classified in Industry 54171, Research and Development in the Physical,
          Engineering, and Life Sciences.

813211 Grantmaking Foundations

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments known as grantmaking foundations or charitable trusts.
Establishments in this industry award grants from trust funds based on a competitive selection process or the
preferences of the foundation managers and grantors; or fund a single entity, such as a museum or university.

Illustrative Examples:

Community foundations
Philanthropic trusts
Corporate foundations, awarding grants
Scholarship trusts
Grantmaking foundations

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing trust management services for others are classified in Industry
523920, Portfolio Management.

813212 Voluntary Health Organizations

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in raising funds for health related research, such as
disease (e.g., heart, cancer, diabetes) prevention, health education, and patient services.

Illustrative Examples:

Disease awareness fundraising organizations
Health research fundraising organizations
Disease research (e.g., heart, cancer) fundraising organizations
Voluntary health organizations

Cross-References.

         Establishments primarily engaged in raising funds for a wide range of social welfare activities, such as
          educational, scientific, cultural, or health, are classified in U.S. Industry 813219, Other Grantmaking and
          Giving Services;
         Establishments primarily engaged in organizing and conducting fundraising campaigns on a contract or fee
          basis are classified in U.S. Industry 561499, All Other Business Support Services;
         Establishments primarily engaged in providing telemarketing services for others are classified in U.S.
          Industry 561422, Telemarketing Bureaus and Other Contact Centers;
         Establishments known as grantmaking foundations or charitable trusts are classified in U.S. Industry
          813211, Grantmaking Foundations;
         Establishments primarily engaged in conducting biotechnology research and development in health
          sciences are classified in U.S. Industry 541711, Research and Development in Biotechnology; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in conducting health research (except biotechnology research and
          development) are classified in U.S. Industry 541712, Research and Development in the Physical,
          Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Biotechnology).

813219 Other Grantmaking and Giving Services

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments (except voluntary health organizations) primarily engaged in raising
funds for a wide range of social welfare activities, such as educational, scientific, cultural, and health.

Illustrative Examples:

Community chests
United fund councils
Federated charities
United funds for colleges

Cross-References.

         Establishments primarily engaged in raising funds for health related research are classified in U.S. Industry
          813212, Voluntary Health Organizations;
         Establishments known as grantmaking foundations or charitable trusts are classified in U.S. Industry
          813211, Grantmaking Foundations;
         Establishments primarily engaged in organizing and conducting fundraising campaigns on a contract or fee
          basis are classified in U.S. Industry 561499, All Other Business Support Services;
         Establishments primarily engaged in providing telemarketing services for others are classified in U.S.
          Industry 561422, Telemarketing Bureaus and Other Contact Centers;
         Establishments primarily engaged in raising funds for political purposes are classified in Industry 813940,
          Political Organizations; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in advocating social causes or issues are classified in Industry 81331,
          Social Advocacy Organizations.

8133      Social Advocacy Organizations

81331     Social Advocacy Organizations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting a particular cause or working for the
realization of a specific social or political goal to benefit a broad or specific constituency. These organizations may
solicit contributions and offer memberships to support these goals.

Illustrative Examples:

Community action advocacy organizations
Firearms advocacy organizations
Conservation advocacy organizations
Human rights advocacy organizations
Environmental advocacy organizations
Wildlife preservation organizations

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Promoting the civic and social interests of their members--are classified in Industry 81341, Civic and
          Social Organizations;
         Promoting the interests of organized labor and union employees--are classified in Industry 81393, Labor
          Unions and Similar Labor Organizations; and
         Providing legal services for social advocacy organizations--are classified in Industry Group 5411, Legal
          Services.

813311 Human Rights Organizations

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting causes associated with human rights
either for a broad or specific constituency. Establishments in this industry address issues, such as protecting and
promoting the broad constitutional rights and civil liberties of individuals and those suffering from neglect, abuse, or
exploitation; promoting the interests of specific groups, such as children, women, senior citizens, or persons with
disabilities; improving relations between racial, ethnic, and cultural groups; and promoting voter education and
registration. These organizations may solicit contributions and offer memberships to support these causes.

Illustrative Examples:

Civil liberties organizations
Senior citizens' advocacy organizations
Human rights advocacy organizations
Veterans' rights organizations

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Promoting the interests of organized labor and union employees--are classified in Industry 813930, Labor
          Unions and Similar Labor Organizations; and
         Providing legal services for human rights organizations--are classified in Industry Group 5411, Legal
          Services.

813312 Environment, Conservation and Wildlife Organizations

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting the preservation and protection of the
environment and wildlife. Establishments in this industry address issues, such as clean air and water; global
warming; conserving and developing natural resources, including land, plant, water, and energy resources; and
protecting and preserving wildlife and endangered species. These organizations may solicit contributions and offer
memberships to support these causes.

Illustrative Examples:

Animal rights organizations
Natural resource preservation organizations
Conservation advocacy organizations
Wildlife preservation organizations
Humane societies

Cross-References.

  Establishments primarily engaged in providing legal services for environment, conservation, and wildlife
organizations are classified in Industry Group 5411, Legal Services.

813319 Other Social Advocacy Organizations

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in social advocacy (except human rights and
environmental protection, conservation, and wildlife preservation). Establishments in this industry address issues,
such as peace and international understanding; community action (excluding civic organizations); or advancing
social causes, such as firearms safety, drunk driving prevention, or drug abuse awareness. These organizations may
solicit contributions and offer memberships to support these causes.

Illustrative Examples:

Community action advocacy organizations
Substance abuse prevention advocacy organizations
Firearms advocacy organizations
Taxpayers' advocacy organizations
Peace advocacy organizations

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Advocating human rights issues--are classified in U.S. Industry 813311, Human Rights Organizations;
         Promoting the preservation and protection of the environment and wildlife--are classified in U.S. Industry
          813312, Environment, Conservation and Wildlife Organizations;
         Promoting the civic and social interests of their members--are classified in Industry 813410, Civic and
          Social Organizations;
         Providing legal services for social advocacy organizations--are classified in Industry Group 5411, Legal
          Services; and
         Providing community action services, such as community action services agencies--are classified in
          Industry 624190, Other Individual and Family Services.

8134      Civic and Social Organizations

81341     Civic and Social Organizations
          See industry description for 813410 below.

813410 Civic and Social Organizations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting the civic and social interests of their
members. Establishments in this industry may operate bars and restaurants for their members.

Illustrative Examples:

Alumni associations
Granges
Automobile clubs (except travel)
Parent-teacher associations

Booster clubs
Scouting organizations
Ethnic associations
Social clubs
Fraternal lodges
Veterans' membership organizations

Cross-References.

         Establishments of insurance offices operated by fraternal benefit organizations are classified in Subsector
          524, Insurance Carriers and Related Activities;
         Establishments primarily engaged in operating residential fraternity and sorority houses are classified in
          Industry 721310, Rooming and Boarding Houses; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in providing travel arrangements and reservation services, such as
          automobile travel clubs or motor travel clubs are classified in U.S. Industry 561599, All Other Travel
          Arrangement and Reservation Services.

8139      Business, Professional, Labor, Political, and Similar Organizations

  This industry group comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting the interests of their members
(except religious organizations, social advocacy organizations, and civic and social organizations). Examples of
establishments in this industry are business associations, professional organizations, labor unions, and political
organizations.

81391     Business Associations
          See industry description for 813910 below.

813910 Business Associations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting the business interests of their members.
These establishments may conduct research on new products and services; develop market statistics; sponsor quality
and certification standards; lobby public officials; or publish newsletters, books, or periodicals for distribution to
their members.

Illustrative Examples:

Agricultural organizations (except youth farming organizations, farm granges)
Real estate boards
Chambers of commerce
Trade associations
Manufacturers' associations

Cross-References.

         Establishments owned by their members but organized to perform a specific business function, such as
          common marketing of crops, joint advertising, or buying cooperatives, are classified according to their
          primary activity;
         Establishments primarily engaged in promoting the professional interests of their members and the
          profession as a whole are classified in Industry 813920, Professional Organizations;
         Establishments primarily engaged in promoting the interests of organized labor and union employees, such
          as trade unions, are classified in Industry 813930, Labor Unions and Similar Labor Organizations; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in lobbying public officials (i.e., lobbyists) are classified in Industry
          541820, Public Relations Agencies.

81392     Professional Organizations
          See industry description for 813920 below.

813920 Professional Organizations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting the professional interests of their members
and the profession as a whole. These establishments may conduct research; develop statistics; sponsor quality and
certification standards; lobby public officials; or publish newsletters, books, or periodicals, for distribution to their
members.

Illustrative Examples:

Bar associations
Learned societies
Dentists' associations
Peer review boards
Engineers' associations
Professional standards review boards
Health professionals' associations
Scientists' associations

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Promoting the business interests of their members--are classified in Industry 813910, Business
          Associations; and
         Lobbying public officials (i.e., lobbyists)--are classified in Industry 541820, Public Relations Agencies.

81393     Labor Unions and Similar Labor Organizations
          See industry description for 813930 below.

813930 Labor Unions and Similar Labor Organizations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting the interests of organized labor and union
employees.

81394     Political Organizations
          See industry description for 813940 below.

813940 Political Organizations

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in promoting the interests of national, state, or local
political parties or candidates. Included are political groups organized to raise funds for a political party or
individual candidates.

Illustrative Examples:

Campaign organizations, political
Political organizations or clubs
Political action committees (PACs)
Political parties
Political campaign organizations

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Organizing and conducting fundraising campaigns on a contract or fee basis--are classified in U.S. Industry
          561499, All Other Business Support Services; and
         Providing telemarketing services for others--are classified in U.S. Industry 561422, Telemarketing Bureaus
          and Other Contact Centers.

81399     Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political Organizations)
          See industry description for 813990 below.

813990 Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political Organizations)

  This industry comprises establishments (except religious organizations, social advocacy organizations, civic and
social organizations, business associations, professional organizations, labor unions, and political organizations)
primarily engaged in promoting the interests of their members.

Illustrative Examples:

Athletic associations, regulatory or administrative
Property owners' associations
Condominium and homeowners' associations
Tenant associations (except advocacy)
Cooperative owners' associations

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating religious organizations, such as churches, religious temples, and monasteries--are classified in
          Industry 813110, Religious Organizations;
         Raising funds for a wide range of social welfare activities and establishments known as grantmaking
          foundations or charitable trusts--are classified in Industry 81321, Grantmaking and Giving Services;
         Advocating social causes or issues--are classified in Industry 81331, Social Advocacy Organizations;
         Promoting the civic and social interests of their members--are classified in Industry 813410, Civic and
          Social Organizations;
         Promoting the business interests of their members--are classified in Industry 813910, Business
          Associations;
         Promoting the professional interests of their members and the profession as a whole--are classified in
          Industry 813920, Professional Organizations;
         Promoting the interests of organized labor and union employees--are classified in Industry 813930, Labor
          Unions and Similar Labor Organizations;
         Promoting the interests of national, state, or local political parties or candidates--are classified in Industry
          813940, Political Organizations; and
         Providing recreational and amusement services, such as recreational or youth sports league teams--are
          classified in Industry 713990, All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries.

814       Private Households   T



  Industries in the Private Households subsector include private households that engage in employing workers on or
about the premises in activities primarily concerned with the operation of the household. These private households
may employ individuals, such as cooks, maids, butlers, and outside workers, such as gardeners, caretakers, and other
maintenance workers.

8141      Private Households   T



81411     Private Households   T

          See industry description for 814110 below.

814110 Private Households

  This industry comprises private households primarily engaged in employing workers on or about the premises in
activities primarily concerned with the operation of the household. These private households may employ
individuals, such as cooks, maids, nannies, butlers, and outside workers, such as gardeners, caretakers, and other
maintenance workers.


                                    Sector 92--Public Administration                   T


                                                 The Sector as a Whole

  The Public Administration sector consists of establishments of federal, state, and local government agencies that
administer, oversee, and manage public programs and have executive, legislative, or judicial authority over other
institutions within a given area. These agencies also set policy, create laws, adjudicate civil and criminal legal
cases, provide for public safety and for national defense. In general, government establishments in the Public
Administration sector oversee governmental programs and activities that are not performed by private
establishments. Establishments in this sector typically are engaged in the organization and financing of the
production of public goods and services, most of which are provided for free or at prices that are not economically
significant.
  Government establishments also engage in a wide range of productive activities covering not only public goods
and services but also individual goods and services similar to those produced in sectors typically identified with
private-sector establishments. In general, ownership is not a criterion for classification in NAICS. Therefore,
government establishments engaged in the production of private-sector-like goods and services should be classified
in the same industry as private-sector establishments engaged in similar activities.
  As a practical matter, it is difficult to identify separate establishment detail for many government agencies. To the
extent that separate establishment records are available, the administration of governmental programs is classified in
Sector 92, Public Administration, while the operation of that same governmental program is classified elsewhere in
NAICS based on the activities performed. For example, the governmental administrative authority for an airport is
classified in Industry 92612, Regulation and Administration of Transportation Programs, while operating the airport
is classified in Industry 48811, Airport Operations. When separate records for multi-establishment companies are
not available to distinguish between the administration of a governmental program and the operation of it, the
establishment is classified in Sector 92, Public Administration.
  Examples of government-provided goods and services that are classified in sectors other than Public
Administration include: schools, classified in Sector 61, Educational Services; hospitals, classified in Subsector 622,
Hospitals; establishments operating transportation facilities, classified in Sector 48-49, Transportation and
Warehousing; the operation of utilities, classified in Sector 22, Utilities; and the Government Printing Office,
classified in Subsector 323, Printing and Related Support Activities.

921       Executive, Legislative, and Other General Government Support

  The Executive, Legislative, and Other General Government Support subsector groups offices of government
executives, legislative bodies, public finance and general government support.

9211      Executive, Legislative, and Other General Government Support

92111     Executive Offices
          See industry description for 921110 below.

921110 Executive Offices

  This industry comprises government establishments serving as offices of chief executives and their advisory
committees and commissions. This industry includes offices of the president, governors, and mayors, in addition to
executive advisory commissions.

92112     Legislative Bodies
          See industry description for 921120 below.

921120 Legislative Bodies

  This industry comprises government establishments serving as legislative bodies and their advisory committees
and commissions. Included in this industry are legislative bodies, such as Congress, state legislatures, and advisory
and study legislative commissions.

92113    Public Finance Activities
         See industry description for 921130 below.

921130 Public Finance Activities

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in public finance, taxation and monetary
policy. Included are financial administration activities, such as monetary policy; tax administration and collection;
custody and disbursement of funds; debt and investment administration; auditing activities; and government
employee retirement trust fund administration.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Administering income maintenance programs--are classified in Industry 923130, Administration of Human
         Resource Programs (except Education, Public Health, and Veterans' Affairs Programs);
        Regulating insurance and banking institutions--are classified in Industry 926150, Regulation, Licensing,
         and Inspection of Miscellaneous Commercial Sectors; and
        Performing central banking functions, such as issuing currency and acting as the fiscal agent for the central
         government--are classified in Industry 521110, Monetary Authorities-Central Bank.

92114    Executive and Legislative Offices, Combined
         See industry description for 921140 below.

921140 Executive and Legislative Offices, Combined

  This industry comprises government establishments serving as councils and boards of commissioners or
supervisors and such bodies where the chief executive (e.g., county executive or city mayor) is a member of the
legislative body (e.g., county or city council) itself.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Serving as offices of chief executives--are classified in Industry 921110, Executive Offices; and
        Serving as legislative bodies--are classified in Industry 921120, Legislative Bodies.

92115    American Indian and Alaska Native Tribal Governments
         See industry description for 921150 below.

921150 American Indian and Alaska Native Tribal Governments

  This industry comprises American Indian and Alaska Native governing bodies. Establishments in this industry
perform legislative, judicial, and administrative functions for their American Indian and Alaska Native lands.
Included in this industry are American Indian and Alaska Native councils, courts, and law enforcement bodies.

Cross-References.

        Establishments primarily engaged in providing funding for American Indian and Alaska Native tribal
         programs through commercial activities, such as gaming, are classified in the industry of the commercial
         activity; and
        Government establishments providing public administration of American Indian and Alaska Native affairs
         are classified in Industry 921190, Other General Government Support.

92119    Other General Government Support
         See industry description for 921190 below.

921190 Other General Government Support

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in providing general support for
government. Such support services include personnel services, election boards, and other general government
support establishments that are not classified elsewhere in public administration.

Illustrative Examples:

Civil rights commissions
Personnel offices, government
Civil service commissions
Supply agencies, government
General services departments, government

Cross-References.

         Government establishments primarily engaged in serving as offices of chief executives and their advisory
          committees and commissions are classified in Industry 921110, Executive Offices;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in serving as legislative bodies and their advisory
          committees and commissions are classified in Industry 921120, Legislative Bodies;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in providing administration of public finance, tax collection,
          and monetary policy programs are classified in Industry 921130, Public Finance Activities;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in serving as combined executive and legislative offices are
          classified in Industry 921140, Executive and Legislative Offices, Combined; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in serving as American Indian or Alaska Native tribal leadership are
          classified in Industry 921150, American Indian and Alaska Native Tribal Governments.

922       Justice, Public Order, and Safety Activities

  The Justice, Public Order, and Safety Activities subsector groups government establishments engaged in the
administration of justice, public order, and safety programs.

9221      Justice, Public Order, and Safety Activities

92211     Courts
          See industry description for 922110 below.

922110 Courts

  This industry comprises civilian courts of law (except Indian tribal and Alaska Native courts). Included in this
industry are civilian courts, courts of law, and sheriffs' offices conducting court functions only.

Cross-References.

         Government establishments primarily engaged in operating military courts are classified in Industry
          928110, National Security; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in operating Indian tribal or Alaska Native courts are classified in
          Industry 921150, American Indian and Alaska Native Tribal Governments.

92212     Police Protection
          See industry description for 922120 below.

922120 Police Protection

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in criminal and civil law enforcement,
police, traffic safety, and other activities related to the enforcement of the law and preservation of order. Combined
police and fire departments are included in this industry.

Cross-References.

         Government establishments primarily engaged in prosecution are classified in Industry 922130, Legal
          Counsel and Prosecution;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in collection of law enforcement statistics are classified in
          Industry 922190, Other Justice, Public Order, and Safety Activities;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in providing police service for the military or National
          Guard are classified in Industry 928110, National Security;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in providing police service for tribal governments are
          classified in Industry 921150, American Indian and Alaska Native Tribal Governments;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in enforcing immigration laws are classified in Industry
          928120, International Affairs;
         Sheriffs' offices conducting court functions only are classified in Industry 922110, Courts; and
         Private establishments primarily engaged in providing security and investigation services are classified in
          Industry 56161, Investigation, Guard, and Armored Car Services.

92213     Legal Counsel and Prosecution
          See industry description for 922130 below.

922130 Legal Counsel and Prosecution

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in providing legal counsel or prosecution
services for the government.

Illustrative Examples:

Attorney generals' offices
Public defenders' offices
District attorneys' offices
Public prosecutors' offices

Cross-References.

  Government establishments primarily engaged in collecting criminal justice statistics are classified in Industry
922190, Other Justice, Public Order, and Safety Activities.

92214     Correctional Institutions
          See industry description for 922140 below.

922140 Correctional Institutions

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in managing and operating correctional
institutions. The facility is generally designed for the confinement, correction, and rehabilitation of adult and/or
juvenile offenders sentenced by a court.

Illustrative Examples:

Correctional institutions, public administration
Penitentiaries, public administration
Detention centers, public administration
Prisons, public administration
Jails, public administration

Cross-References.

         Government establishments primarily engaged in operating half-way houses for ex-criminal offenders and
          delinquent youths are classified in Industry 623990, Other Residential Care Facilities; and
         Establishments primarily engaged in managing or operating correctional facilities owned by others are
          classified in Industry 561210, Facilities Support Services.

92215     Parole Offices and Probation Offices
          See industry description for 922150 below.

922150 Parole Offices and Probation Offices

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in judicially administering probation
offices, parole offices and boards, and pardon boards.

Cross-References.

         Private establishments primarily engaged in providing parole or probation services are classified in Industry
          624190, Other Individual and Family Services; and
         Government establishments primarily engaged in providing probation, parole, and pardon activities as an
          integral part of a central administrative corrections' office are classified in Industry 922140, Correctional
          Institutions.

92216     Fire Protection
          See industry description for 922160 below.

922160 Fire Protection

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in fire fighting and other related fire
protection activities. Government establishments providing combined fire protection and ambulance or rescue
services are classified in this industry.

Cross-References.            Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Forest fire fighting--are classified in Industry 115310, Support Activities for Forestry;
         Providing combined police and fire protection services--are classified in Industry 922120, Police
          Protection;
         Providing fire fighting services as a commercial activity--are classified in Industry 561990, All Other
          Support Services; and
         Providing ambulance services without fire protection service--are classified in Industry 621910,
          Ambulance Services.

92219     Other Justice, Public Order, and Safety Activities
          See industry description for 922190 below.

922190 Other Justice, Public Order, and Safety Activities

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in public order and safety (except courts,
police protection, legal counsel and prosecution, correctional institutions, parole offices, probation offices, pardon
boards, and fire protection). These establishments include the general administration of public order and safety
programs. Government establishments responsible for the collection of statistics on public safety are included in
this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Consumer product safety commissions, public administration
Emergency planning and management offices, government
Disaster preparedness and management offices, government

Public safety bureaus and statistics centers, government

Cross-References.           Government establishments primarily engaged in--

         Serving as civilian courts of law (except Indian tribal and Alaska Native)--are classified in Industry
          922110, Courts;
         Criminal and civil law enforcement, police, traffic safety and similar activities related to the enforcement of
          law--are classified in Industry 922120, Police Protection;
         Providing legal counsel to or prosecution services for their governments--are classified in Industry 922130,
          Legal Counsel and Prosecution;
         The confinement, correction, and rehabilitation of adult and juvenile offenders sentenced by a court--are
          classified in Industry 922140, Correctional Institutions;
         Judicially administering probation offices, parole offices and boards, and pardon boards--are classified in
          Industry 922150, Parole Offices and Probation Offices; and
         Fire fighting and other related fire protection activities--are classified in Industry 922160, Fire Protection.

923       Administration of Human Resource Programs

  The Administration of Human Resource Programs subsector groups government establishments primarily engaged
in the administration of human resource programs.

9231      Administration of Human Resource Programs

92311     Administration of Education Programs
          See industry description for 923110 below.

923110 Administration of Education Programs

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the central coordination, planning,
supervision and administration of funds, policies, intergovernmental activities, statistical reports and data collection,
and centralized programs for educational administration. Government scholarship programs are included in this
industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Education offices, nonoperating, public administration
State education departments
Education statistics centers, government
University regents or boards, government

Cross-References.

  Schools and local school boards are classified in Subsector 611, Educational Services.

92312     Administration of Public Health Programs
          See industry description for 923120 below.

923120 Administration of Public Health Programs

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the planning, administration, and
coordination of public health programs and services, including environmental health activities, mental health,
categorical health programs, health statistics, and immunization services. Government establishments primarily
engaged in conducting public health-related inspections are included in this industry.

Illustrative Examples:

Communicable disease program administration, public administration
Mental health program administration, public administration
Coroners' offices, public administration
Public health program administration, nonoperating, public administration
Health program administration, public administration

Cross-References.           Government establishments primarily engaged in--

        Operating hospitals (i.e., government or military)--are classified in Subsector 622, Hospitals;
        Providing health care in a clinical setting (i.e., military or government clinics)--are classified in Subsector
         621, Ambulatory Health Care Services; and
        Inspecting food, plants, animals, and other agriculture products--are classified in Industry 926140,
         Regulation of Agricultural Marketing and Commodities.

92313    Administration of Human Resource Programs (except Education, Public Health, and Veterans'
         Affairs Programs)
         See industry description for 923130 below.

923130 Administration of Human Resource Programs (except Education, Public Health, and Veterans'
         Affairs Programs)

 This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the planning, administration, and
coordination of programs for public assistance, social work, and welfare activities. The administration of Social
Security, disability insurance, Medicare, unemployment insurance, and workers' compensation programs are
included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Government establishments primarily engaged in--

        Administering veterans' programs--are classified in Industry 923140, Administration of Veterans' Affairs;
        Operating state employment job service offices--are classified in U.S. Industry 561311, Employment
         Placement Agencies; and
        Operating programs for public assistance, social work, and welfare--are classified in Subsector 624, Social
         Assistance.

92314    Administration of Veterans' Affairs
         See industry description for 923140 below.

923140 Administration of Veterans' Affairs

 This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration of programs of
assistance, training, counseling, and other services to veterans and their dependents, heirs or survivors. Included in
this industry are Veterans' Affairs offices that maintain liaison and coordinate activities with other service
organizations and governmental agencies.

Cross-References.

        Government establishments operating veterans' hospitals are classified in Subsector 622, Hospitals;
        Establishments providing veterans' insurance are classified in Subsector 524, Insurance Carriers and
         Related Activities; and
        Establishments operating civic and social organizations for veterans are classified in Industry 813410,
         Civic and Social Organizations.

924      Administration of Environmental Quality Programs

 The Administration of Environmental Quality Programs subsector groups government establishments primarily
engaged in the administration of environmental quality.

9241      Administration of Environmental Quality Programs

92411     Administration of Air and Water Resource and Solid Waste Management Programs
          See industry description for 924110 below.

924110 Administration of Air and Water Resource and Solid Waste Management Programs

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) the
administration, regulation, and enforcement of air and water resource programs; (2) the administration and
regulation of solid waste management programs; (3) the administration and regulation of water and air pollution
control and prevention programs; (4) the administration and regulation of flood control programs; (5) the
administration and regulation of drainage development and water resource consumption programs; (6) the
administration and regulation of toxic waste removal and cleanup programs; and (7) coordination of these activities
at intergovernmental levels.

Illustrative Examples:

Environmental protection program administration, public administration
Waste management program (except sanitation districts) administration, public administration
Pollution control program administration, public administration
Water control and quality program administration, public administration

Cross-References.           Government establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating water and irrigation systems--are classified in Industry 221310, Water Supply and Irrigation
          Systems;
         Administering sanitation districts--are classified in Industry 926130, Regulation and Administration of
          Communications, Electric, Gas, and Other Utilities;
         Operating sewage treatment facilities--are classified in Industry 221320, Sewage Treatment Facilities; and
         Providing waste collection, treatment, disposal, and/or remediation--are classified in Subsector 562, Waste
          Management and Remediation Services.

92412     Administration of Conservation Programs
          See industry description for 924120 below.

924120 Administration of Conservation Programs

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration, regulation,
supervision and control of land use, including recreational areas; conservation and preservation of natural resources;
erosion control; geological survey program administration; weather forecasting program administration; and the
administration and protection of publicly and privately owned forest lands. Government establishments responsible
for planning, management, regulation and conservation of game, fish, and wildlife populations, including wildlife
management areas and field stations; and other administrative matters relating to the protection of fish, game, and
wildlife are included in this industry.

Cross-References.           Government establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating parks--are classified in Industry 712190, Nature Parks and Other Similar Institutions;
         Operating forest property--are classified in Subsector 113, Forestry and Logging;
         Geophysical surveying and/or mapping--are classified in Industry 541360, Geophysical Surveying and
          Mapping Services;
         Surveying and/or mapping (except geophysical)--are classified in Industry 541370, Surveying and Mapping
          (except Geophysical) Services;
         Weather forecasting--are classified in Industry 541990, All Other Professional, Scientific, and Technical
          Services;

         Operating fish and game preserves--are classified in Industry 712130, Zoos and Botanical Gardens; and
         Serving as urban planning commissions--are classified in Industry 925120, Administration of Urban
          Planning and Community and Rural Development.

925       Administration of Housing Programs, Urban Planning, and Community Development

  The Administration of Housing Programs, Urban Planning, and Community Development subsector groups
government establishments primarily engaged in the administration of housing, urban planning, and community
development.

9251      Administration of Housing Programs, Urban Planning, and Community Development

92511     Administration of Housing Programs
          See industry description for 925110 below.

925110 Administration of Housing Programs

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration and planning of
housing programs.

Cross-References.            Government establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating government rental housing--are classified in Subsector 531, Real Estate;
         Conducting building inspections and enforcing building codes and standards--are classified in Industry
          926150, Regulation, Licensing, and Inspection of Miscellaneous Commercial Sectors; and
         Buying, pooling, and repackaging mortgages or home loans for sale to others on the secondary market--are
          classified in U.S. Industry 522294, Secondary Market Financing.

92512     Administration of Urban Planning and Community and Rural Development
          See industry description for 925120 below.

925120 Administration of Urban Planning and Community and Rural Development

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration and planning of the
development of urban and rural areas. Included in this industry are government zoning boards and commissions.

Illustrative Examples:

Land redevelopment agencies, government
Urban planning commissions, government
Regional planning and development program administration, public administration
Zoning boards and commissions, public administration

926       Administration of Economic Programs

  This subsector comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration of economic
programs.

9261      Administration of Economic Programs

92611     Administration of General Economic Programs
          See industry description for 926110 below.

926110 Administration of General Economic Programs

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration, promotion and
development of economic resources, including business, industry, and tourism. Included in this industry are
government establishments responsible for the development of general statistical data and analyses and promotion of
the general economic well-being of the governed area.

Illustrative Examples:

Consumer protection offices, public administration
Small business development agencies, public administration
Economic development agencies, government
Trade commissions, government
General economics statistical agencies, public administration

92612     Regulation and Administration of Transportation Programs
          See industry description for 926120 below.

926120 Regulation and Administration of Transportation Programs

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration, regulation, licensing,
planning, inspection, and investigation of transportation services and facilities. Included in this industry are
government establishments responsible for motor vehicle and operator licensing, the Coast Guard (except the Coast
Guard Academy), and parking authorities.

Cross-References.            Government establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating airports, railroads, depots, ports, toll roads and bridges, and other transportation facilities--are
          classified in Sector 48-49, Transportation and Warehousing;
         Operating parking lots and parking garages--are classified in Industry 812930, Parking Lots and Garages;
         Operating automobile safety inspection and emission testing facilities--are classified in Industry Group
          8111, Automotive Repair and Maintenance;
         Building and/or maintaining roads and highways--are classified in Industry 237310, Highway, Street, and
          Bridge Construction;
         Providing air traffic control services--are classified in U.S. Industry 488111, Air Traffic Control; and
         Operating weigh stations--are classified in Industry 488490, Other Support Activities for Road
          Transportation.

92613     Regulation and Administration of Communications, Electric, Gas, and Other Utilities
          See industry description for 926130 below.

926130 Regulation and Administration of Communications, Electric, Gas, and Other Utilities

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration, regulation, licensing
and inspection of utilities, such as communications, electric power (including fossil, nuclear, solar, water, and wind),
gas and water supply, and sewerage.

Cross-References.

  Government establishments primarily engaged in operating utilities are classified in Subsector 221, Utilities.

92614     Regulation of Agricultural Marketing and Commodities
          See industry description for 926140 below.

926140 Regulation of Agricultural Marketing and Commodities

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the planning, administration, and
coordination of agricultural programs for production, marketing, and utilization, including educational and

promotional activities. Included in this industry are government establishments responsible for regulating and
controlling the grading and inspection of food, plants, animals, and other agricultural products.

Cross-References.            Government establishments primarily engaged in--

         Administering programs for developing economic data about agricultural and trade in agricultural products-
          -are classified in Industry 926110, Administration of General Economic Programs;
         Administering programs for the conservation of natural resources--are classified in Industry Group 9241,
          Administration of Environmental Quality Programs; and
         Administering food stamp programs--are classified in Industry 923130, Administration of Human Resource
          Programs (except Education, Public Health, and Veterans' Affairs Programs).

92615     Regulation, Licensing, and Inspection of Miscellaneous Commercial Sectors
          See industry description for 926150 below.

926150 Regulation, Licensing, and Inspection of Miscellaneous Commercial Sectors

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the regulation, licensing, and inspection
of commercial sectors, such as retail trade, professional occupations, manufacturing, mining, construction, and
services. Included in this industry are government establishments maintaining physical standards, regulating
hazardous conditions not elsewhere classified, and enforcing alcoholic beverage control regulations.

Illustrative Examples:

Alcoholic beverage control boards, public administration
Labor management negotiations boards, government
Banking regulatory agencies, public administration
Licensing and permit issuance for business operations, government
Building inspections, government
Licensing and permit issuance for professional occupations, government
Insurance commissions, government
Securities regulation commissions, public administration

Cross-References.            Government establishments primarily engaged in--

         Regulating, administering, and inspecting transportation services and facilities--are classified in Industry
          926120, Regulation and Administration of Transportation Programs; and
         Regulating, administering, and inspecting communications, electric, gas, and other utilities--are classified
          in Industry 926130, Regulation and Administration of Communications, Electric, Gas, and Other Utilities.

927       Space Research and Technology

  This subsector comprises government establishments that conduct space research.

9271      Space Research and Technology

92711     Space Research and Technology
          See industry description for 927110 below.

927110 Space Research and Technology

  This industry comprises government establishments primarily engaged in the administration and operations of
space flights, space research, and space exploration. Included in this industry are government establishments
operating space flight centers.

Cross-References.

         Private establishments primarily engaged in providing space freight transportation are classified in U.S.
          Industry 481212, Nonscheduled Chartered Freight Air Transportation;
         Government establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing aerospace vehicles and parts are classified
          in Industry 33641, Aerospace Product and Parts Manufacturing; and
         Government establishments primarily engaged in manufacturing space satellites are classified in Industry
          334220, Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing.

928       National Security and International Affairs

  This subsector comprises government establishments primarily engaged in national security and international
affairs.

9281      National Security and International Affairs

92811     National Security
          See industry description for 928110 below.

928110 National Security

  This industry comprises government establishments of the Armed Forces, including the National Guard, primarily
engaged in national security and related activities.

Illustrative Examples:

Air Force
Military police
Army
Military training schools (except military service academies)
Marine Corps
National Guard
Military courts
Navy

Cross-References.             Government establishments primarily engaged in--

         Operating military service academies--are classified in Industry 611310, Colleges, Universities, and
          Professional Schools; and
         Regulating and administering water transportation, such as the U.S. Coast Guard and the Merchant Marine-
          -are classified in Industry 926120, Regulation and Administration of Transportation Programs.

92812     International Affairs
          See industry description for 928120 below.

928120 International Affairs

  This industry comprises establishments of U.S. and foreign governments primarily engaged in international affairs
and programs relating to other nations and peoples.

Cross-References.

         Private sector trade associations and councils are classified in Industry 813910, Business Associations; and
         Government establishments administering international trade, such as trade commissions and councils are
          classified in Industry 926110, Administration of General Economic Programs.

