            Sector 11--Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting                             T


                                              The Sector as a Whole

  The Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting sector comprises establishments primarily engaged in growing
crops, raising animals, harvesting timber, and harvesting fish and other animals from a farm, ranch, or their natural
habitats.
  The establishments in this sector are often described as farms, ranches, dairies, greenhouses, nurseries, orchards,
or hatcheries. A farm may consist of a single tract of land or a number of separate tracts which may be held under
different tenures. For example, one tract may be owned by the farm operator and another rented. It may be operated
by the operator alone or with the assistance of members of the household or hired employees, or it may be operated
by a partnership, corporation, or other type of organization. When a landowner has one or more tenants, renters,
croppers, or managers, the land operated by each is considered a farm.
  The sector distinguishes two basic activities: agricultural production and agricultural support activities.
Agricultural production includes establishments performing the complete farm or ranch operation, such as farm
owner-operators, tenant farm operators, and sharecroppers. Agricultural support activities include establishments
that perform one or more activities associated with farm operation, such as soil preparation, planting, harvesting, and
management, on a contract or fee basis.
  Excluded from the Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting sector are establishments primarily engaged in
agricultural research and establishments primarily engaged in administering programs for regulating and conserving
land, mineral, wildlife, and forest use. These establishments are classified in Industry 54171, Research and
Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences; and Industry 92412, Administration of Conservation
Programs, respectively.

111      Crop Production     T



  Industries in the Crop Production subsector grow crops mainly for food and fiber. The subsector comprises
establishments, such as farms, orchards, groves, greenhouses, and nurseries, primarily engaged in growing crops,
plants, vines, or trees and their seeds.
  The industries in this subsector are grouped by similarity of production activity, including biological and
physiological characteristics and economic requirements, the length of growing season, degree of crop rotation,
extent of input specialization, labor requirements, and capital demands. The production process is typically
completed when the raw product or commodity grown reaches the "farm gate" for market, that is, at the point of first
sale or price determination.
  Establishments are classified to the Crop Production subsector when crop production (i.e., value of crops for
market) accounts for one-half or more of the establishment's total agricultural production. Within the subsector,
establishments are classified to a specific industry when a product or industry family of products (i.e., oilseed and
grain farming, vegetable and melon farming, fruit and tree nut farming) account for one-half or more of the
establishment's agricultural production. Establishments with one-half or more crop production with no one pr
oduct
or family of products of an industry accounting for one-half of the establishment's agricultural production are treated
as general combination crop farming and are classified in Industry 11199, All Other Crop Farming.
  Industries in the Crop Production subsector include establishments that own, operate, and manage and those that
operate and manage. Those that manage only are classified in Subsector 115, Support Activities for Agriculture and
Forestry. Establishments that raise aquatic plants in controlled or selected aquatic environments are classified in
Subsector 112, Animal Production and Aquaculture.