562       Waste Management and Remediation Services           T



  Industries in the Waste Management and Remediation Services subsector group establishments engaged in the
collection, treatment, and disposal of waste materials. This includes establishments engaged in local hauling of
waste materials; operating materials recovery facilities (i.e., those that sort recyclable materials from the trash
stream); providing remediation services (i.e., those that provide for the cleanup of contaminated buildings, mine
sites, soil, or ground water); and providing septic pumping and other miscellaneous waste management services.
There are three industry groups within the subsector that separate these activities into waste collection, waste
treatment and disposal, and remediation and other waste management.
  Excluded from this subsector are establishments primarily engaged in collecting, treating, and disposing waste
through sewer systems or sewage treatment facilities that are classified in Industry 22132, Sewage Treatment
Facilities and establishments primarily engaged in long-distance hauling of waste materials that are classified in
Industry 48423, Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance. Also, there are some activities
that appear to be related to waste management, but that are not included in this subsector. For example,
establishments primarily engaged in providing waste management consulting services are classified in Industry
54162, Environmental Consulting Services.

5621      Waste Collection

56211     Waste Collection

  This industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in (1) collecting and/or hauling hazardous waste,
nonhazardous waste, and/or recyclable materials within a local area and/or (2) operating hazardous or nonhazardous
waste transfer stations. Hazardous waste collection establishments may be responsible for the identification,
treatment, packaging, and labeling of waste for the purposes of transport.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

         Long-distance trucking of waste--are classified in Industry 48423, Specialized Freight (except Used Goods)
          Trucking, Long-Distance;
         Operating facilities for separating and sorting recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e.,
          garbage) and/or for sorting commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, and metal cans, into
          distinct categories--are classified in Industry 56292, Materials Recovery Facilities; and
         Collecting and/or hauling in combination with disposal of waste materials--are classified in Industry 56221,
          Waste Treatment and Disposal.

562111 Solid Waste Collection

  This U.S. industry comprises establishments primarily engaged in one or more of the following: (1) collecting
and/or hauling nonhazardous solid waste (i.e., garbage) within a local area; (2) operating nonhazardous solid waste
transfer stations; and (3) collecting and/or hauling mixed recyclable materials within a local area.

Cross-References.           Establishments primarily engaged in--

        Long-distance trucking of waste--are classified in Industry 484230, Specialized Freight (except Used
         Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance;
        Collecting and/or hauling in combination with disposal of nonhazardous waste materials--are classified in
         Industry 56221, Waste Treatment and Disposal;
        Collecting and/or hauling hazardous waste within a local area and/or operating hazardous waste transfer
         stations--are classified in U.S. Industry 562112, Hazardous Waste Collection;
        Collecting and removing debris, such as brush or rubble, within a local area--are classified in U.S. Industry
         562119, Other Waste Collection; and
        Operating facilities for separating and sorting recyclable materials from nonhazardous waste streams (i.e.,
         garbage) and/or for sorting commingled recyclable materials, such as paper, plastics, and metal cans, into
         distinct categories--are classified in Industry 562920, Materials Recovery Facilities.